asian exporters fear damage from u . s .- japan rift mounting trade friction between the u . s . and japan has raised fears among many of asia ' s exporting nations that the row could inflict far - reaching economic damage , businessmen and officials said .
they told reuter correspondents in asian capitals a u . s . move against japan might boost protectionist sentiment in the u . s . and lead to curbs on american imports of their products .
but some exporters said that while the conflict would hurt them in the long - run , in the short - term tokyo ' s loss might be their gain .
the u . s . has said it will impose 300 mln dlrs of tariffs on imports of japanese electronics goods on april 17 , in retaliation for japan ' s alleged failure to stick to a pact not to sell semiconductors on world markets at below cost .
unofficial japanese estimates put the impact of the tariffs at 10 billion dlrs and spokesmen for major electronics firms said they would virtually halt exports of products hit by the new taxes .
`` we wouldn ' t be able to do business , '' said a spokesman for leading japanese electronics firm matsushita electric industrial co ltd & lt ; mc . t > .
`` if the tariffs remain in place for any length of time beyond a few months it will mean the complete erosion of exports ( of goods subject to tariffs ) to the u . s . , '' said tom murtha , a stock analyst at the tokyo office of broker & lt ; james capel and co > .
in taiwan , businessmen and officials are also worried .
`` we are aware of the seriousness of the u . s .
threat against japan because it serves as a warning to us , '' said a senior taiwanese trade official who asked not to be named .
taiwan had a trade trade surplus of 15 . 6 billion dlrs last year , 95 pct of it with the u . s .
the surplus helped swell taiwan ' s foreign exchange reserves to 53 billion dlrs , among the world ' s largest .
`` we must quickly open our markets , remove trade barriers and cut import tariffs to allow imports of u . s . products , if we want to defuse problems from possible u . s .
retaliation , '' said paul sheen , chairman of textile exporters & lt ; taiwan safe group > .
a senior official of south korea ' s trade promotion association said the trade dispute between the u . s . and japan might also lead to pressure on south korea , whose chief exports are similar to those of japan .
last year south korea had a trade surplus of 7 . 1 billion dlrs with the u . s . , up from 4 . 9 billion dlrs in 1985 .
in malaysia , trade officers and businessmen said tough curbs against japan might allow hard - hit producers of semiconductors in third countries to expand their sales to the u . s .
in hong kong , where newspapers have alleged japan has been selling below - cost semiconductors , some electronics manufacturers share that view .
but other businessmen said such a short - term commercial advantage would be outweighed by further u . s . pressure to block imports .
`` that is a very short - term view , '' said lawrence mills , director - general of the federation of hong kong industry .
`` if the whole purpose is to prevent imports , one day it will be extended to other sources .
much more serious for hong kong is the disadvantage of action restraining trade , '' he said .
the u . s . last year was hong kong ' s biggest export market , accounting for over 30 pct of domestically produced exports .
the australian government is awaiting the outcome of trade talks between the u . s . and japan with interest and concern , industry minister john button said in canberra last friday .
`` this kind of deterioration in trade relations between two countries which are major trading partners of ours is a very serious matter , '' button said .
he said australia ' s concerns centred on coal and beef , australia ' s two largest exports to japan and also significant u . s . exports to that country .
meanwhile u . s .- japanese diplomatic manoeuvres to solve the trade stand - off continue .
japan ' s ruling liberal democratic party yesterday outlined a package of economic measures to boost the japanese economy .
the measures proposed include a large supplementary budget and record public works spending in the first half of the financial year .
they also call for stepped - up spending as an emergency measure to stimulate the economy despite prime minister yasuhiro nakasone ' s avowed fiscal reform program .
deputy u . s . trade representative michael smith and makoto kuroda , japan ' s deputy minister of international trade and industry ( miti ) , are due to meet in washington this week in an effort to end the dispute .
china daily says vermin eat 7 - 12 pct grain stocks a survey of 19 provinces and seven cities showed vermin consume between seven and 12 pct of china ' s grain stocks , the china daily said .
it also said that each year 1 . 575 mln tonnes , or 25 pct , of china ' s fruit output are left to rot , and 2 . 1 mln tonnes , or up to 30 pct , of its vegetables .
the paper blamed the waste on inadequate storage and bad preservation methods .
it said the government had launched a national programme to reduce waste , calling for improved technology in storage and preservation , and greater production of additives .
the paper gave no further details .
japan to revise long - term energy demand downwards the ministry of international trade and industry ( miti ) will revise its long - term energy supply / demand outlook by august to meet a forecast downtrend in japanese energy demand , ministry officials said .
miti is expected to lower the projection for primary energy supplies in the year 2000 to 550 mln kilolitres ( kl ) from 600 mln , they said .
the decision follows the emergence of structural changes in japanese industry following the rise in the value of the yen and a decline in domestic electric power demand .
miti is planning to work out a revised energy supply / demand outlook through deliberations of committee meetings of the agency of natural resources and energy , the officials said .
they said miti will also review the breakdown of energy supply sources , including oil , nuclear , coal and natural gas .
nuclear energy provided the bulk of japan ' s electric power in the fiscal year ended march 31 , supplying an estimated 27 pct on a kilowatt / hour basis , followed by oil ( 23 pct ) and liquefied natural gas ( 21 pct ) , they noted .
thai trade deficit widens in first quarter thailand ' s trade deficit widened to 4 . 5 billion baht in the first quarter of 1987 from 2 . 1 billion a year ago , the business economics department said .
it said janunary / march imports rose to 65 . 1 billion baht from 58 . 7 billion .
thailand ' s improved business climate this year resulted in a 27 pct increase in imports of raw materials and semi - finished products .
the country ' s oil import bill , however , fell 23 pct in the first quarter due to lower oil prices .
the department said first quarter exports expanded to 60 . 6 billion baht from 56 . 6 billion .
export growth was smaller than expected due to lower earnings from many key commodities including rice whose earnings declined 18 pct , maize 66 pct , sugar 45 pct , tin 26 pct and canned pineapples seven pct .
products registering high export growth were jewellery up 64 pct , clothing 57 pct and rubber 35 pct .
indonesia sees cpo price rising sharply indonesia expects crude palm oil ( cpo ) prices to rise sharply to between 450 and 550 dlrs a tonne fob sometime this year because of better european demand and a fall in malaysian output , hasrul harahap , junior minister for tree crops , told indonesian reporters .
prices of malaysian and sumatran cpo are now around 332 dlrs a tonne cif for delivery in rotterdam , traders said .
harahap said indonesia would maintain its exports , despite making recent palm oil purchases from malaysia , so that it could possibly increase its international market share .
indonesia , the world ' s second largest producer of palm oil after malaysia , has been forced to import palm oil to ensure supplies during the moslem fasting month of ramadan .
harahap said it was better to import to cover a temporary shortage than to lose export markets .
indonesian exports of cpo in calendar 1986 were 530 , 500 tonnes , against 468 , 500 in 1985 , according to central bank figures .
australian foreign ship ban ends but nsw ports hit tug crews in new south wales ( nsw ) , victoria and western australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign - flag ships carrying containers but nsw ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute , shipping sources said .
the ban , imposed a week ago over a pay claim , had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels , they said .
the pay dispute went before a hearing of the arbitration commission today .
meanwhile , disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of sydney , newcastle and port kembla , they said .
the industrial action at the nsw ports is part of the week of action called by the nsw trades and labour council to protest changes to the state ' s workers ' compensation laws .
the shipping sources said the various port unions appear to be taking it in turn to work for a short time at the start of each shift and then to walk off .
cargo handling in the ports has been disrupted , with container movements most affected , but has not stopped altogether , they said .
they said they could not say how long the disruption will go on and what effect it will have on shipping movements .
indonesian commodity exchange may expand the indonesian commodity exchange is likely to start trading in at least one new commodity , and possibly two , during calendar 1987 , exchange chairman paian nainggolan said .
he told reuters in a telephone interview that trading in palm oil , sawn timber , pepper or tobacco was being considered .
trading in either crude palm oil ( cpo ) or refined palm oil may also be introduced .
but he said the question was still being considered by trade minister rachmat saleh and no decision on when to go ahead had been made .
the fledgling exchange currently trades coffee and rubber physicals on an open outcry system four days a week .
`` several factors make us move cautiously , '' nainggolan said .
`` we want to move slowly and safely so that we do not make a mistake and undermine confidence in the exchange . ''
physical rubber trading was launched in 1985 , with coffee added in january 1986 .
rubber contracts are traded fob , up to five months forward .
robusta coffee grades four and five are traded for prompt delivery and up to five months forward , exchange officials said .
the trade ministry and exchange board are considering the introduction of futures trading later for rubber , but one official said a feasibility study was needed first .
no decisions are likely until after indonesia ' s elections on april 23 , traders said .
trade minister saleh said on monday that indonesia , as the world ' s second largest producer of natural rubber , should expand its rubber marketing effort and he hoped development of the exchange would help this .
nainggolan said that the exchange was trying to boost overseas interest by building up contacts with end - users .
he said teams had already been to south korea and taiwan to encourage direct use of the exchange , while a delegation would also visit europe , mexico and some latin american states to encourage participation .
officials say the infant exchange has made a good start although trading in coffee has been disappointing .
transactions in rubber between the start of trading in april 1985 and december 1986 totalled 9 , 595 tonnes , worth 6 . 9 mln dlrs fob , plus 184 . 3 mln rupiah for rubber delivered locally , the latest exchange report said .
trading in coffee in calendar 1986 amounted to only 1 , 905 tonnes in 381 lots , valued at 6 . 87 billion rupiah .
total membership of the exchange is now nine brokers and 44 traders .
sri lanka gets usda approval for wheat price food department officials said the u . s . department of agriculture approved the continental grain co sale of 52 , 500 tonnes of soft wheat at 89 u . s . dlrs a tonne c and f from pacific northwest to colombo .
they said the shipment was for april 8 to 20 delivery .
western mining to open new gold mine in australia western mining corp holdings ltd & lt ; wmng . s > ( wmc ) said it will establish a new joint venture gold mine in the northern territory at a cost of about 21 mln dlrs .
the mine , to be known as the goodall project , will be owned 60 pct by wmc and 40 pct by a local w . r . grace and co & lt ; gra > unit .
it is located 30 kms east of the adelaide river at mt .
bundey , wmc said in a statement it said the open - pit mine , with a conventional leach treatment plant , is expected to produce about 50 , 000 ounces of gold in its first year of production from mid - 1988 .
annual ore capacity will be about 750 , 000 tonnes .
sumitomo bank aims at quick recovery from merger sumitomo bank ltd & lt ; sumi . t > is certain to lose its status as japan ' s most profitable bank as a result of its merger with the heiwa sogo bank , financial analysts said .
osaka - based sumitomo , with desposits of around 23 . 9 trillion yen , merged with heiwa sogo , a small , struggling bank with an estimated 1 . 29 billion dlrs in unrecoverable loans , in october .
but despite the link - up , sumitomo president koh komatsu told reuters he is confident his bank can quickly regain its position .
`` we ' ll be back in position in first place within three years , '' komatsu said in an interview .
he said that while the merger will initially reduce sumitomo ' s profitability and efficiency , it will vastly expand sumitomo ' s branch network in the tokyo metropolitan area where it has been relatively weak .
but financial analysts are divided on whether and how quickly the gamble will pay off .
some said sumitomo may have paid too much for heiwa sogo in view of the smaller bank ' s large debts .
others argue the merger was more cost effective than creating a comparable branch network from scratch .
the analysts agreed the bank was aggressive .
it has expanded overseas , entered the lucrative securities business and geared up for domestic competition , but they questioned the wisdom of some of those moves .
`` they ' ve made bold moves to put everything in place .
now it ' s largely out of their hands , '' said kleinwort benson ltd financial analyst simon smithson .
among sumitomo ' s problems are limits placed on its move to enter u . s . securities business by taking a share in american investment bank goldman , sachs and co . sumitomo last august agreed to pay 500 mln dlrs for a 12 . 5 pct limited partnership in the bank , but for the time being at least , the federal reserve board has forbidden them to exchange personnel , or increase the business they do with each other .
`` the tie - up is widely looked on as a lame duck because the fed was stricter than sumitomo expected , '' said one analyst .
but komatsu said the move will pay off in time .
`` u . s .
regulations will change in the near future and if so , we can do various things .
we only have to wait two or three years , not until the 21st century , '' komatsu said .
komatsu is also willing to be patient about possible routes into the securities business at home .
article 65 of the securities and exchange act , japan ' s version of the u . s . glass - steagall act , separates commercial from investment banking .
but the walls between the two are crumbling and komatsu said he hopes further deregulation will create new opportunities .
`` we need to find new business chances , '' komatsu said .
`` in some cases these will be securities related , in some cases trust bank related .
that ' s the kind of deregulation we want . ''
until such changes occur , sumitomo will focus on such domestic securities business as profitable government bond dealing and strengthening relations with meiko securities co ltd , in which it holds a five pct share , komatsu said .
he said sumitomo is cautiously optimistic about entering the securities business here through its swiss universal bank subsidiary , banca del gottardo .
the finance ministry is expected to grant licences to securities subsidiaries of u . s . commercial banks soon , following a similar decision for subsidiaries of european universal banks in which the parent holds a less than 50 pct .
but komatsu is reluctant to push hard for a similar decision on a gottardo subsidiary .
`` we don ' t want to make waves .
we expect this will be allowed in two or three years , '' he said .
like other city banks , sumitomo is also pushing to expand lending to individuals and small and medium businesses to replace disappearing demand from big business , he added .
the analysts said sumitomo will have to devote a lot of time to digesting its most recent initiatives , including the merger with ailing heiwa sogo .
`` it ' s ( sumitomo ) been bold in its strategies , '' said kleinwort ' s smithson .
`` after that , it ' s a question of absorbing and juggling around .
it will be the next decade before we see if the strategy is right or wrong . ''
subroto says indonesia supports tin pact extension mines and energy minister subroto confirmed indonesian support for an extension of the sixth international tin agreement ( ita ) , but said a new pact was not necessary .
asked by reuters to clarify his statement on monday in which he said the pact should be allowed to lapse , subroto said indonesia was ready to back extension of the ita .
`` we can support extension of the sixth agreement , '' he said .
`` but a seventh accord we believe to be unnecessary . ''
the sixth ita will expire at the end of june unless a two - thirds majority of members vote for an extension .
bundesbank allocates 6 . 1 billion marks in tender the bundesbank accepted bids for 6 . 1 billion marks at today ' s tender for a 28 - day securities repurchase pact at a fixed rate of 3 . 80 pct , a central bank spokesman said .
banks , which bid for a total 12 . 2 billion marks liquidity , will be credited with the funds allocated today and must buy back securities pledged on may 6 .
some 14 . 9 billion marks will drain from the market today as an earlier pact expires , so the bundesbank is effectively withdrawing a net 8 . 1 billion marks from the market with today ' s allocation .
a bundesbank spokesman said in answer to enquiries that the withdrawal of funds did not reflect a tightening of credit policy , but was to be seen in the context of plentiful liquidity in the banking system .
banks held an average 59 . 3 billion marks at the bundesbank over the first six days of the month , well clear of the likely april minimum reserve requirement of 51 billion marks .
the bundesbank spokesman noted that by bidding only 12 . 2 billion marks , below the outgoing 14 . 9 billion , banks themselves had shown they felt they had plenty of liquidity .
dealers said the bundesbank is keen to prevent too much liquidity accruing in the market , as that would blunt the effectiveness of the security repurchase agreement , its main open - market instrument for steering market interest rates .
two further pacts are likely this month over the next two weeks .
the bundesbank is currently steering call money between 3 . 6 and 3 . 8 pct , although short - term fluctuations outside that range are possible , dealers said .
bond corp still considering atlas mining bail - out bond corp holdings ltd & lt ; bona . s > and atlas consolidated mining and development corp & lt ; atlc . mn > are still holding talks on a bail - out package for the troubled mining firm , an atlas statement said .
atlas , the philippines ' biggest copper producer , said it had been hit by depressed world copper prices .
it reported a net loss of 976 . 38 mln pesos in the year ending december 1986 , compared with a net loss of 1 . 53 billion in 1985 .
the company said it had been able to cut its losses because its scaled - down copper operations in the central island of cebu started in the second half of 1986 .
atlas said negotiations were continuing on the acquisition by bond of the company ' s existing bank loans and their restructuring into a gold loan .
a memorandum of understanding signed by the two sides in october last year said bond would acquire atlas ' total loans of 275 mln dlrs , to be repaid by the mining company in gold .
atlas said the two sides were also discussing equity infusion into atlas and the creation of a development fund for further exploration and development of the company ' s gold properties in the central province of masbate .
wilson banks , general manager of & lt ; bond corp international ltd > in hong kong , told reuters the atlas statement on the negotiations was `` reasonably accurate . ''
banks said bond corp was seriously considering several investments in the philippines but did not give details .
in its statement , atlas said development of the pre - world war two underground mines in masbate had been accelerated and the ore tonnage had increased , extending the operation ' s life at least until 1993 .
china industrial output rises in first quarter china ' s industrial output rose 14 . 1 pct in the first quarter of 1987 against the same 1986 period , the people ' s daily said .
its overseas edition said the growth rate , which compares with a target of seven pct for the whole of 1987 , was `` rather high `` but the base in the first quarter of 1986 was on the low side .
industrial output grew 4 . 4 pct in the first quarter of 1986 .
it said china ' s industrial production this year has been normal but product quality and efficiency need further improvement .
it gave no further details .
japan ministry says open farm trade would hit u . s . japan ' s agriculture ministry , angered by u . s .
demands that japan open its farm products market , will tell u . s . officials at talks later this month that liberalisation would harm existing u . s . farm exports to japan , a senior ministry official said .
`` imports from the u . s . would drop due to active sales drives by other suppliers , '' the official , who declined to be named , said .
`` japan is the largest customer for u . s . farm products and it is not reasonable for the u . s . to demand japan liberalise its farm import market , '' he said .
agriculture minister mutsuki kato has said if the u . s .
insists japan open its protected rice market it will also open its wheat market , where volume and origin are regulated to protect local farmers .
australia and canada could then increase their wheat exports as they are more competitive than the u . s . , he said .
end - users would also buy other origins , grain traders said .
u . s . agriculture secretary richard lyng , who is due to visit japan for talks between april 16 - 27 , has said he will ask japan to offer a share of its rice market to u . s .
suppliers and remove quotas on u . s .
beef and citrus imports .
other countries are already cutting into the u . s . market share here .
australia , the largest beef supplier to japan , has been trying to boost exports prior to the expiry of a four - year beef accord next march 31 .
imports of u . s . corn have fallen due to increased sales from china and south america , while japanese soybean imports from brazil are expected to rise sharply this year , although the u . s . will remain the largest supplier .
u . s . feedgrain sales will also drop if japan opens up its beef imports , since japan depends almost entirely on feedgrain imports , mainly from the u . s . , japanese officials said .
an indication of the u . s .
position came last december when under secretary of agriculture daniel amstutz said japan has the potential to provide one of the largest boosts to u . s .
agricultural exports , with the beef market alone representing some one billion dlrs in new business .
the u . s . has also asked the general agreement on tariffs and trade to investigate the legality of japanese import controls on 12 other farm products , including fruit juices , purees and pulp , tomato juice , ketchup and sauce , peanuts , prepared beef products and miscellaneous beans .
to help calm heated trade relations with the u . s . , japan ' s top business group keidanren has urged the government to remove residual import restrictions on agricultural products .
but agriculture minister kato has ruled out any emotional reaction , and the senior ministry official said the farm issue should not become a scapegoat for trade pressure in the industrial sector .
`` japan is the largest buyer of u . s . farm products , and these issues should not be discussed on the same table , '' the official said .
amatil proposes two - for - five bonus share issue amatil ltd & lt ; amaa . s > said it proposes to make a two - for - five bonus issue out of its revaluation reserve to shareholders registered may 26 .
shareholders will be asked to approve the issue and an increase in authorised capital to 175 mln shares from 125 mln at a general meeting on may 1 , it said in a statement .
the new shares will rank for dividends declared after october 31 .
amatil , in which b . a . t .
industries plc & lt ; bti . l > holds a 41 pct stake , said it does not expect to maintain its latest annual dividend rate of 29 cents a share on the enlarged capital .
bowater 1986 pretax profits rise 15 . 6 mln stg shr 27 . 7p vs 20 . 7p div 6 . 0p vs 5 . 5p making 10 . 0p vs 9 . 25p turnover 1 . 34 billion stg vs 1 . 29 billion pretax profit 48 . 0 mln vs 32 . 4 mln tax 14 . 4 mln vs 6 . 9 mln company name is bowater industries plc & lt ; bwtr . l > trading profit 63 . 4 mln vs 45 . 1 mln trading profit includes - packaging and associated products 23 . 2 mln vs 14 . 2 mln merchanting and services 18 . 4 mln vs 9 . 6 mln tissue and timber products 9 . 0 mln vs 5 . 8 mln interest debit 15 . 4 mln vs 12 . 7 mln minority interests 7 . 0 mln debit vs 6 . 2 mln debit extraordinary items 15 . 4 mln credit vs 11 . 9 mln debit
u . k . money market deficit forecast at 250 mln stg the bank of england said it forecast a shortage of around 250 mln stg in the money market today .
among the main factors affecting liquidity , bills maturing in official hands and the take - up of treasury bills will drain some 505 mln stg , while bills for repurchase by the market will remove around 194 mln .
in addition , a rise in note circulation and bankers ' balances below target will each drain around 110 mln stg .
partly offsetting these outflows , exchequer transactions will add some 690 mln stg to the system today .
south korea moves to slow growth of trade surplus south korea ' s trade surplus is growing too fast and the government has started taking steps to slow it down , deputy prime minister kim mahn - je said .
he told a press conference the government planned to increase investment , speed up the opening of the local market to foreign imports and gradually adjust its currency to hold the surplus `` at a proper level . ''
but he said the government would not allow the won to appreciate too much in a short period of time .
south korea has been under pressure from washington to revalue the won .
the u . s .
wants south korea to cut its trade surplus with the u . s . , which rose to 7 . 4 billion dlrs in 1986 from 4 . 3 billion dlrs in 1985 .
kim , who is also economic planning minister , said prospects were bright for the south korean economy , but the government would try to hold the current account surplus to around five billion dlrs a year for the next five years .
`` our government projections of eight pct gnp growth , five billion dlrs of ( current account ) surplus and 12 pct growth in exports all seemed to be reasonable early this year .
but now the surplus is growing faster than we expected , '' he said .
trade ministry officials said south korea ' s exports rose 35 pct to 9 . 34 billion dlrs in the first three months of this year , while imports rose only 8 . 5 pct to 8 . 2 billion dlrs .
kim said the swing of south korea ' s current account to a surplus of 4 . 65 billion dlrs in 1986 from an 890 mln dlr deficit in 1985 was very significant .
the surplus enabled the country to reduce its foreign debt last year for the first time .
south korea ' s foreign debt , which fell to 44 . 5 billion dlrs in 1986 from 46 . 8 billion in 1985 , is still among the largest in asia .
`` this huge amount of our foreign debt has been one of the major constraints on our development ... last year was a major turning point for the korean economy , '' kim said .
kim said his government plannned to reduce the ratio of foreign debt to the country ' s gnp to about 20 pct in 1991 , from about 50 pct in 1986 .
`` the government , however , does not want to accelerate reducing the debt by making an excessive trade surplus , '' he said .
kim said a sudden rise in the surplus would cause inflation and lead to trade friction with seoul ' s major trading partners , particularly the united states .
`` we need a surplus because we have to reduce our debt , but we are taking measures to hold the size of the surplus at a proper level , '' kim said .
finns and canadians to study mtbe production plant finland ' s national oil company neste oy & lt ; neoy . he > said in a statement it had agreed with canadian firms to study the feasibility of building a plant in edmonton , canada , to produce a replacement for lead in petrol .
the prospective plant would cost an estimated 270 mln canadian dlrs and would produce methyl tertiary butyl ether ( mtbe ) from raw materials available locally , it said .
the partners in the study are neste oy , celanese canada inc , hoechst celanese corporation and trade mountain pipe line company ltd , of vancouver , b . c .
the edmonton site was suitable because of the raw materials availability , the proximity to pipeline transportation and the important capital and operating advantages gained by locating on an existing celanese canada site , the statement said .
the partners would look into the feasibility of a plant producing 500 , 000 tonnes per annum of mtbe , an octane enhancer that can replace tetra ethyl lead .
most of the mtbe would be targeted for the united states where lead levels in gasoline are being lowered because of health concerns , the statement added .
canadian lead limits are currently 11 times as high as the u . s . limit but lead is scheduled for virtual elimination in canada by 1993 , which should create a canadian demand for mtbe , it said .
finland ' s neste oy , whose turnover last year was over five billion dlrs , has extensive experience with mtbe .
it has a major investment in an mtbe plant in saudi arabia .
the edmonton , alberta plant would be scheduled to go on stream in late 1989 , the statement said .
cra sold forrest gold for 76 mln dlrs - whim creek & lt ; whim creek consolidated nl > said the consortium it is leading will pay 76 . 55 mln dlrs for the acquisition of cra ltd ' s & lt ; craa . s > & lt ; forrest gold pty ltd > unit , reported yesterday .
cra and whim creek did not disclose the price yesterday .
whim creek will hold 44 pct of the consortium , while & lt ; austwhim resources nl > will hold 27 pct and & lt ; croesus mining nl > 29 pct , it said in a statement .
as reported , forrest gold owns two mines in western australia producing a combined 37 , 000 ounces of gold a year .
it also owns an undeveloped gold project .
german industrial employment seen stagnating the number of workers employed in the west german industrial sector stagnated in the last quarter of 1986 as a 50 , 000 increase in overall employment benefited only the services branch , the diw economic institute said .
a diw report added the general downturn in the economy since last autumn had had a negative effect on the willingness of firms to take on workers .
it referred to a marked downturn in the number of workers taken on in the capital goods sector .
new orders for manufacturing industry goods have mostly fallen or stagnated in recent months , but data for february finally showed a reversal of the trend , with a 1 . 9 pct rise .
bowater industries profit exceed expectations bowater industries plc & lt ; bwtr . l > 1986 pretax profits of 48 . 0 mln stg exceeded market expectations of around 40 mln and pushed the company ' s shares up sharply to a high of 491p from 468p last night , dealers said .
the shares later eased back to 481p .
bowater reported a 32 . 4 mln stg profit in 1985 .
the company said in a statement accompanying the results that the underlying trend showed improvement and it intended to expand further by developing existing businesses and seeking new opportunities .
it added that it had appointed david lyon , currently managing director of redland plc & lt ; rdld . l > as its new chief executive .
analysts noted that bowater ' s profits of 18 . 9 mln stg from 13 . 2 mln previously had been given a boost by pension benefits of 4 . 5 mln stg .
profit from australia and the far east showed the greatest percentage rise , jumping 55 . 0 pct to 15 . 5 mln from 10 . 0 mln , while the profit from u . k . operations rose 30 . 7 pct to 24 . 7 mln , and europe , 42 . 9 pct to 11 . 0 mln .
citibank norway unit loses six mln crowns in 1986 citibank a / s & lt ; cci . n > , the norwegian subsidiary of the u . s .- based bank , said it made a net loss of just over six mln crowns in 1986 -- although foreign bankers said they expect it to show 1987 profits after two lean years .
citibank ' s oslo treasury head bjoern sejerstad told reuters , citibank , one of seven foreign bank subsidiaries operating in norway , lost money because of restructuring for investment banking away from commercial banking and an economic slump in norway following last year ' s plunge in oil prices .
foreign banks have been allowed to operate susbidiaries in norway since 1985 .
foreign banking analysts in oslo said access to norway ' s second - hand securities and equities markets , to be approved later this spring , and lower primary reserve requirements would make profit this year .
citibank lost 490 , 000 crowns in norway in 1985 , but sejerstad said a profit was likely this year because of planned liberalisation and better economic performance , helped by a steadier oil price of around 18 dlrs a barrel .
earlier this year , chase manhattan bank ' s & lt ; cmb . n > subsidiary decided to stop foreign exchange trading after heavy losses and focus instead on fee - based merchant banking .
vieille montagne says 1986 conditions unfavourable a sharp fall in the dollar price of zinc and the depreciation of the u . s . currency created unfavourable economic conditions for vieille montagne sa & lt ; vmnb . br > in 1986 .
it said in a statement that the two factors led to a squeeze on refining margins and an 18 . 24 pct fall in sales and services income despite an unchanged level of activity .
vieille montagne , which is actively pursuing a restructuring program , reported a 198 mln franc net loss , after 187 mln francs in provisions for the closure of an electrolysis plant , compared with a 250 mln franc net profit in 1985 .
vieille montagne reports loss , dividend nil 1986 year net loss after exceptional charges 198 mln francs vs profit 250 mln exceptional provisions for closure of viviez electrolysis plant 187 mln francs vs exceptional gain 22 mln sales and services 16 . 51 billion francs vs 20 . 20 billion proposed net dividend on ordinary shares nil vs 110 francs company ' s full name is vieille montagne sa & lt ; vmnb . br > .
ec mainly for tin extension , no u . k .
stand taken european community ( ec ) members of the international tin council , except britain , have said they are prepared to back an extension of the international tin agreement , an ec spokesman said .
he said at a meeting of ec states ' representatives here yesterday , britain undertook to communicate its own decision to its partners today .
it said it was not ready yesterday to take a stand but did not say why .
he added nine other ec states backed an extension .
spain and portugal , which are not members of the international tin council , raised no objections to a common ec stance in favour .
japan given little hope of avoiding u . s . sanctions a top u . s . official said japan has little chance of convincing the u . s . to drop threatened trade sanctions , despite the efforts of a japanese team that left for washington today .
michael armacost , under secretary of state for political affairs , was asked at a press conference whether japan ' s moves to boost its domestic economy and open its markets could persuade the u . s . not to impose tariffs on japanese imports said , and replied : `` ... it is probably too early for the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to permit the result you have described . ''
armacost said the u . s . hopes japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports , remove barriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues .
`` there are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area , but we do not wish those problems to divert attention from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security and political issues , '' he said .
`` the question is whether through cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the ( trade ) imbalance or whether congress takes action to reduce it through protectionist legislation , '' he said .
thai zinc exports fall in march thai zinc ingot exports fell to 882 tonnes in march from 1 , 764 in february and 3 , 008 in march 1986 , the mineral resources department said .
a spokesman for padaeng industry co ltd , the country ' s sole exporter , attributed the decline to the company ' s lower stocks , which averaged 5 , 000 tonnes in the first quarter against 16 , 000 tonnes in late 1985 when it began exporting .
the department said major buyers included china , japan , the philippines , south korea , singapore and taiwan .
thailand exported 4 , 842 tonnes of zinc ingots during the first quarter , down from 14 , 937 a year ago .
ec sugar tender hard to predict - london trade the outcome of today ' s european community ( ec ) white sugar tender is extremely difficult to predict after last week ' s substantial award of 102 , 350 tonnes at the highest ever rebate of 46 . 864 european currency units ( ecus ) per 100 kilos , traders said .
some said they believed the tonnage would probably be smaller , at around 60 , 000 tonnes , but declined to give a view on the likely restitution .
last week , the european commission accepted 785 , 000 tonnes of sugar into intervention by operators protesting about low rebates .
this might be a determining factor in today ' s result , they added .
north yemen calls sugar buying tender - trade north yemen has called a buying tender for saturday for the purchase of 30 , 000 tonnes of white sugar for arrival in june , traders said .
anheuser - busch joins bid for san miguel anheuser - busch companies inc & lt ; bud . n > has joined several other foreign bidders for sequestered shares of the philippines ' largest food and beverage maker san miguel corp & lt ; sanm . mn > , the head of a government panel which controls the shares told reuters .
ramon diaz , secretary of the presidential commission on good government ( pcgg ) , said anheuser - busch had told the government it was interested in buying 14 mln `` b `` shares of san miguel .
he did not disclose the offered price .
diaz said australian brewer alan bond ' s bond corp holdings ltd had offered 150 pesos per share for the `` b `` shares .
diaz said new york investment bank allen and co inc had earlier said it was interested in buying all 38 . 1 mln sequestered shares .
he told reuters last month elders ixl ltd & lt ; elxa . s > , the melbourne - based brewing company , had also bid for the `` b `` shares .
the hong kong economic journal last month quoted a spokesman of australian stock broker jacksons ltd as saying that & lt ; barwon farmlands ltd > , an australian firm owned 30 pct by & lt ; ariadne australia ltd > , was planning a filipino branch in order to buy the entire block of 38 . 1 mln shares .
anheuser - busch last year made a 150 mln dlr bid to buy & lt ; san miguel brewery ltd > , a hong kong listed company which is 69 . 65 pct owned by & lt ; neptunia corp ltd > , a san miguel corp subsidiary .
the talks broke down last june after the two sides said they could not agree on the terms of the sale .
economic spotlight - australian markets booming australian markets are booming as foreign fund managers redirect capital away from the united states and other traditional markets , analysts said .
high short - term interest rates , a bullish stock market and an increasingly stable currency reflect a massive inflow of fresh funds in the last two months , largely from japanese and u . s . investors , analysts polled by reuters said .
fund managers want quality markets to park their cash in and have settled on australia , britain and canada as they diversify from volatile u . s . dollar instruments , they said .
a one percentage point fall in key 10 - year bonds rates in the past month , record share prices and a 10 - month high for the currency of 0 . 71 u . s . dlrs all illustrated the inflow .
official figures on the latest inflow of investment capital are not available , but brokers said they received almost daily inquiries from japan and the united states .
`` these people have got trillions of dollars sloshing about and they don ' t know what to do with it .
some of that is ending up here with the attraction of high interest rates and reasonable currency stability , '' national australia bank ltd economist brian hamley said .
`` there is a ' flight to quality ' , '' hamley said .
`` australia may not be in the best ( economic ) position , but there aren ' t too many other countries where you ' d want to put your money . ''
the stronger australian dollar was also attracting investors taking advantage of an appreciating currency against the volatility of the u . s . unit , analysts said .
`` we ' re looking a more favoured market than perhaps the u . s . where some people would be concerned about the value of the u . s . dollar , '' lloyds bank nza ltd chief economist will buttrose said .
`` why not put the money in australia where entry is cheap and the currency looks stable ? ''
but turning that capital into more permanent productive investment depends on government economic policy , he said .
`` it will only disappear if people lose confidence in the direction in the economy , '' buttrose said , adding that offshore investors would carefully watch the government ' s promised tough economic statement on may 14 .
while happy to invest in bonds and other vehicles yielding interest unobtainable elsewhere , fund managers could just as easily reverse the flow -- particularly the japanese , who were badly hurt in the past by rapid falls in the australian dollar and hefty jumps in bond rates , analysts said .
`` it will remain very edgy money .
if something was not to be delivered , if the statement wasn ' t considered tough enough , one might see a substantial outflow , '' buttrose said .
offshore investors are eager to see australia take tough economic decisions to curb its 100 billion dlr foreign debt and stubborn current account deficit , analysts said .
`` they are giving us the benefit of the doubt and i think they would like to leave the money here , '' buttrose said .
reserve bank policy has also reflected the increased interest in investment in australia and the need to shield japanese investors from rapid currency fluctuations .
reserve governor bob johnston last week acknowledged an element of targeting the rate against the yen in currency policy when he said authorities could not take their `` eyes off the yen `` because of the crucial role of japanese investors .
analysts said they believed the reserve bank had worked successfully in recent months to keep the australian dollar within the range of 100 to 103 yen .
apart from its recovery against a weak u . s . dollar , the australian dollar has also risen almost three pct on a trade - weighted basis in the last three weeks .
offshore buying has also played a role in the booming australian share market .
it has followed wall street and other markets , but is also setting its own trend in response to the weight of both domestic and offshore funds pouring into equities , particularly in the gold sector .
the key all ordinaries index rose to a record 1 , 758 . 3 today , nearly 20 pct above its level at the end of 1986 , while the gold index has nearly doubled to a record 3 , 081 . 0 in the same period .
the property sector is also sought after , with japanese companies that have invested heavily in the united states in recent years turning their attention to undervalued real estate , particularly in the tourism field .
analysts pointed to the recent sale of sydney ' s five - star regent hotel to japanese interests for more than 145 mln dlrs as indicative of the type of property being sought .
`` they think they find good value real estate here which , with long term and fixed capital investment , is the kind of investment australia needs , '' buttrose added .
economic spotlight - kuwaiti economy kuwait ' s oil - reliant and debt - ridden economy has started to pull out of a nosedive but oil prices will determine the pace of recovery , bankers and economists say .
crucial will be the ability of the 13 - member opec to hold oil prices around a new benchmark of 18 dlrs a barrel in the northern hemisphere summer when demand usually slackens .
bankers estimate the economy , measured in terms of gross domestic product ( gdp ) , shrank 19 pct in real terms last year after contracting 8 . 1 pct the year before .
this was after taking into account inflation in consumer prices of 1 . 5 pct in 1985 , slowing to 1 . 0 pct in 1986 .
factors depressing economic activity include the 6 - 1 / 2 - year - old iran - iraq war on kuwait ' s doorstep , which threatens the emirate ' s vital oil export lifeline through the gulf and has sapped business confidence .
but sentiment received a much - needed boost in september when , after a series of piecemeal steps to combat a debt crisis caused by the 1982 crash of local stock market , a comprehensive new debt settlement program was introduced .
the share crash , result of a speculative spree in forward trading , left 95 billion dlrs of post - dated cheques in default .
the cheques were also used as collateral for consumer spending , thus generating an informal credit system .
much of the debt has been watered down but big sums are still owed by individuals and companies .
there was some 4 . 4 billion dinars ( about 15 . 7 billion dlrs ) in outstanding bank credit at the end of 1986 , of which one - quarter to one - third was estimated by bankers to rank as bad or doubtful debt .
but the government has repeatedly said it will not allow any banks to go under .
the new debt settlement scheme entails a rescheduling of problem credit over 10 to 15 years , depending on whether debtors have regular cash flows or not .
banks ' shareholders and depositors will have their rights guaranteed by the government -- an edict of vital significance in a country of only 1 . 7 mln people where the financial sector is the biggest after oil .
kuwait is better placed than any other opec country to ride out the oil glut , bankers and economists say .
kuwait has an opec quota of 948 , 000 barrels per day ( bpd ) compared with production capacity of 4 . 0 mln bpd mentioned last year by oil minister sheikh ali al - khalifa al - sabah .
but strategic diversification into downstream operations in europe several years ago and a hefty refining investment at home gives it guaranteed markets abroad and enables it to sell over one - half of its output as high - grade refined oil products .
oil industry sources say kuwait is able to get an average 2 . 00 dlrs a barrel more by selling oil in the form of processed product such as gas oil , kerosene and naphtha , rather than as crude .
bankers say the rebound in oil prices is the major reason for cautious optimism .
other reasons are low domestic inflation , a bottoming out of the fall in imports in recent years and signs government spending on productive sectors will remain steady .
external accounts are in good shape , with an estimated 1 . 8 billion dinar current account surplus in 1986 , 16 pct below that for 1985 , but still an achievement in the recession - hit gulf .
kuwait ' s petrodollar reserves in mid - 1986 were put officially at over 80 billion dlrs , earning investment income of the equivalent of about 3 . 65 billion dlrs a year .
but for the first time since the end of the oil boom , these reserves may not be enough to prevent a `` real `` budget deficit for the 1986 / 87 fiscal year ending june 30 , bankers say .
in a budget portrayed by bankers as mildly contractionary , revenues for 1986 / 87 were cut 38 . 6 pct and spending 11 pct , doubling the nominal deficit to 1 . 33 billion dinars .
this left out income from state reserves , usually excluded in official budget accounting , which are forecast by bankers at up to 1 . 0 billion dinars in 1986 / 87 , resulting in some shortfall .
bankers say it is too early to venture a forecast for economic growth this year or next .
`` it depends on oil prices , '' one said .
`` this summer is important . ''
cabinet affairs minister rashid al - rashid said last sunday the cabinet has ratified recommendations to rationalise state spending in favour of productive sectors and reactivate the economy .
he gave no details but bankers say these are expected to be spelled out in the 1987 / 88 budget , possibly in june .
malaysia may not meet 1987 oil palm target malaysia is unlikely to meet its targeted output of five mln tonnes of oil palm in calendar 1987 , oil palm growers told reuters .
output in 1987 is expected to reach around 4 . 5 mln tonnes , unchanged from 1986 , because of drought , low use of fertiliser and overstressed palms , they said .
the growers were asked for their reaction to an oil world newsletter report that malaysia ' s oil palm output is likely to drop sharply this year .
palm oil now sells at around 700 ringgit a tonne , or about 115 ringgit less than soybean oil , but malaysia must sell more palm oil to prevent a stock buildup that could damage the industry , a leading grower told reuters .
the country ' s palm oil stocks now total some 500 , 000 tonnes against about 800 , 000 last march , the growers said .
the growers expect palm oil prices to ease later this year due to pressure from south american and u . s .
soybean output .
the current south american oilseed harvest , mainly soybean , is likely to be around 25 . 7 mln tonnes against the previous 21 . 7 mln tonne crop , they said .
in addition , new u . s .
soybean plantings are also expected to enter the market around november when malaysian palm oil output peaks .
they said new planting of palms is also likely to slow , with some 50 , 000 hectares expected to be planted with new trees against 100 , 000 in 1986 , although the effects of this reduction will not be felt for about another three years .
jardine matheson said it sets two - for - five bonus issue replacing `` b `` shares jardine matheson said it sets two - for - five bonus issue replacing `` b `` shares
monier says britain ' s redland may bid for it diversified building materials group monier ltd & lt ; mnra . s > said talks are taking place which may lead to britain ' s redland plc & lt ; rdld . l > making an offer for the monier shares it does not already hold , chairman bill locke said .
redland already holds about 49 pct of monier ' s 156 . 28 mln issued shares , he said in a brief notice to the australian stock exchange .
locke said shareholders would be advised as soon as the discussions progressed and recommended that they keep their shares .
monier shares were trading at a 1987 high of 3 . 10 dlrs today , up from the previous peak of 2 . 80 at yesterday ' s close , and well above the 1987 low of 2 . 18 dlrs .
monier is the largest concrete roof tile manufacturer in australia , the u . s . and new zealand and the world ' s largest marketer of fly ash , according to its annual report for 1985 / 86 ended june 30 .
it recently reported first - half 1986 / 87 net fell to 15 . 02 mln dlrs from 17 . 09 mln a year earlier due to the australian housing downturn , although foreign earnings rose .
isuzu plans no interim dividend isuzu motor ltd & lt ; isum . t > will pay no dividend for the first half year ending april 30 , 1987 , as the company is expected to mark a 12 billion yen parent company current loss in the first half due to slow exports caused by the yen ' s appreciation , a company spokesman said .
the company has paid no dividend since the year ended october 31 , 1983 , when it paid five yen .
it had a 4 . 44 billion yen current profit in the first half of 1985 / 86 .
japanese official takes data to microchip talks ministry of international trade and industry ( miti ) vice minister makoto kuroda leaves for washington today with data he hopes will refute u . s . charges japan has violated a pact on microchip trade .
a three - man japanese trade team is already in washington laying the groundwork for talks between kuroda and deputy u . s . trade representative michael smith aimed at persuading the u . s . not to impose tariffs on certain japanese products .
but kuroda said he is taking no new proposals .
`` i have nothing in my briefcase except an explanation of the current situation , '' kuroda told the daily newspaper asahi shimbun .
kuroda said the u . s . decision was based on incorrect data and an exaggerated sense of miti ' s power to control market forces .
`` the u . s . has excessive expectations .
to stabilise supply - demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some time , '' he said .
kuroda also laid part of the blame for low u . s . chip sales in japan on a lack of effort by american firms here .
he said if he fails in talks tomorrow and friday to forestall sanctions , he will seek further talks with u . s . trade representative clayton yeutter .
u . s . officials said this week ' s talks are unlikely to delay imposition of tariffs .
bell group confirms standard chartered stake the bell group ltd & lt ; blla . s > said it now holds 14 . 9 pct of the issued capital of standard chartered plc & lt ; stch . l > after acquiring further shares .
the one - sentence statement from bell ' s headquarters confirmed what its brokers warburg securities told reuters in london yesterday .
bell previously held 10 pct of standard .
bell chairman robert holmes a court , who is also a director of standard , was not available for comment on his company ' s intentions in boosting its holding and other company officials contacted here by reuters declined to comment .
nippon steel denies china seeking japanese plants nippon steel corp & lt ; nstc . t > denied local newspaper reports that china has been seeking to buy steel plants from japanese firms which plan to suspend output under the recently announced rationalisation program .
the mainichi shimbun quoted nippon steel as saying that china ' s state planning commission and some chinese firms have asked japanese makers to sell them steel works and rolling mills to expand steelmaking cheaply .
it named no sources .
a nippon steel spokesman told reuters that china has made no such official request , and the company was not considering such sales at the moment .
but mainichi quoted nippon steel officials as saying if prices are reasonable , they would export their used mills to china .
the paper said china ' s crude steel output totalled 52 mln tonnes in calendar 1986 and that it plans to increase to 80 mln by 1996 .
japan ' s steel industry rationalisation plan is aimed at cutting production capacity sharply over the next few years .
jardine matheson replaces `` b `` share by bonus issue jardine matheson holdings ltd & lt ; jard . hk > said it will withdraw the previously announced four - for - one bonus issue of `` b `` shares and replace it by a two - for - five bonus issue of ordinary shares .
a statement said the firm expects to pay total dividends for 1987 of not less than 40 cents a share on the expanded capital .
jardine matheson decided to withdraw its issue because of a joint announcement earlier today by ronald li , chairman of the stock exchange of hong kong , and securities commissioner ray astin , that the listings of new `` b `` shares would be barred .
the official announcement said this will include the proposal by jardine matheson .
but the jardine statement quoted chairman simon keswick as saying : `` we continue to believe that the issuing of `` b `` shares would benefit shareholders , and regret that they will not be given the opportunity to vote on the matter at this stage . ''
keswick said the `` b `` share issue will benefit jardine matheson ' s shareholders by giving the firm flexibility to issue ordinary shares for expansion in future without diluting existing shareholders ' voting rights .
however , he added : `` we certainly welcome ( the secretary for monetary affairs ) david nendick ' s referral of this very important matter to the standing committee on company law reform and are hopeful that the process will lead to the development of general principles which can be embraced by all constituents of the hong kong market . ''
japan given little hope of avoiding u . s . sanctions a top u . s . official said japan has little chance of persuading the u . s . to drop threatened trade sanctions , despite the efforts of a japanese team that left for washington today .
michael armacost , under secretary of state for political affairs , was asked at a press conference whether japan ' s moves to boost its domestic economy and open its markets could persuade the u . s . not to impose tariffs on japanese imports said , and replied : `` ... it is probably too early for the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to permit the result you have described . ''
armacost said the u . s . hopes japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports , remove barriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues .
`` there are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area , but we do not wish those problems to divert attention from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security and political issues , '' he said .
`` the question is whether through cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the ( trade ) imbalance or whether congress takes action to reduce it through protectionist legislation , '' he said .
bank of japan intervenes soon after tokyo opening the bank of japan bought a small amount of dollars shortly after the opening at around 145 . 30 yen , dealers said .
the central bank intervened as a medium - sized trading house sold dollars , putting pressure on the u . s . currency , they said .
the dollar was also supported by a major electrical consumer goods company , which was a speculative dollar buyer at around 145 . 25 yen , they added .
the dollar opened at 145 . 33 yen against 145 . 60 / 70 in new york and 145 . 25 at the close here yesterday .
indonesian inflation rate 8 . 8 pct in 1986 / 87 inflation was by 8 . 8 pct in indonesia during fiscal 1986 / 87 to march 31 , compared to 5 . 66 pct the previous year , information minister harmoko said after a cabinet session to discuss the economic situation .
u . k . money market given 53 mln stg assistance the bank of england said it provided the money market with 53 mln stg assistance in the morning session .
this compares with the bank ' s estimate of a shortage in the system of around 300 mln stg which it earlier revised up from 250 mln .
the central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 46 mln stg in band three at 9 - 3 / 4 pct and seven mln stg in band four at 9 - 11 / 16 pct .
san miguel deal hit by more lawsuits a bid by san miguel corp ( smc ) & lt ; sanm . mn > to buy back 38 . 1 mln sequestered shares from united coconut planters bank ( ucpb ) has been hit by two new lawsuits , sources in the philippine food and brewery company said .
a manila court yesterday issued an injunction barring ucpb from selling the shares , which represent 31 pct of smc ' s outstanding capital stock of 121 mln shares , until hearings on april 21 on a petition filed by eduardo cojuangco , a former chairman of both smc and ucpb .
cojuangco said the coconut industry investment fund ( ciif ) and 1 . 4 mln farmers were the rightful owners of the shares .
cojuangco said the shares were held in trust by ucpb and represented a blue chip investment .
his petition said ucpb ' s plans to sell the shares to smc were `` a serious breach of fiduciary duties . ''
the smc sources said the proposed share sale could also be held up by a second derivative suit filed before the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) by eduardo de los angeles , a government nominee on the company ' s board .
de los angeles , who represents smc ' s minority stockholders , asked the sec to block the transaction , approved last week by the company ' s board .
on april 2 the board sanctioned the repurchase of the sequestered shares for 4 . 79 billion pesos at 126 pesos per share .
de los angeles told the sec the company ' s retained earnings of 1 . 33 billion pesos would be wiped out by the purchase of the shares and would prevent the declaration of dividends .
de los angeles said the share purchase would also violate an smc agreement with its creditors to maintain a 2 . 2 - to - 1 debt to equity ratio .
he quoted smc ' s chief financial director ramon del rosario as telling the board that the transaction would boost the ratio to 2 . 5 - to - 1 .
in petitioning the sec , de los angeles amended an earlier suit two weeks ago in which he charged smc chairman andres soriano iii and nine other directors of violating their duties .
de los angeles ' earlier complaint related to smc assuming last december a 26 . 5 mln dlr loan contracted by smc ' s hong kong subsidiary & lt ; neptunia corp > for a down payment on the shares .
the loan assumption was again ratified by last week ' s board meeting .
an arbitration panel set up by president corazon aquino to resolve the ownership issue is expected to submit its report by april 15 .
`` the amended suit filed by eduardo de los angeles is part of a continuing attempt by certain elements , in complete disregard of the facts and with questionable motives , to delay an early disposition of the sequestered shares , '' san miguel corp said in a statement .
`` coming as it does , when san miguel corp and ucpb have reached agreement on the price of the shares and the method of payment , this suit is in direct contravention of the government ' s expressed desire to reach an amicable settlement of the controversy by april 15 , '' the statement added .
a san miguel spokesman said he had no comment on cojuangco ' s court petition , adding : `` any statement coming from us might be interpreted as adversarial . ''
meanwhile , ramon diaz , the head of a government panel which sequestered the shares last year , said soriano was not eligible to buy the major portion of the shares because he was a united states citizen .
the sequestered shares are split into 24 mln `` a `` shares , which can only be owned by filipinos , and 14 mln `` b `` shares which are available to foreign buyers .
smc sources said soriano personally was not among prospective buyers .
they said the shares would be purchased by the & lt ; a . soriano > group of companies , smc , neptunia and unnamed institutional investors .
soriano was named as one of the buyers in a bid in march 1986 for 33 mln shares controlled by ucpb .
the sale was aborted when diaz ' s presidential commission on good government sequestered the shares on suspicion they were owned by cojuangco , a close associate of former president ferdinand marcos .
cojuangco lives in self - imposed exile in the u . s ..
the shares grew to 38 . 1 mln after a 15 pct stock dividend announced last june .
`` we have no objection to soriano buying the `` b `` shares , '' diaz told reuters .
`` but everything is on hold now . ''
the smc spokesman said he did not know if the controversy would be resolved before the company ' s annual stockholders ' meeting , scheduled for may 14 .
san miguel corp reported sales revenue of 12 . 2 billion pesos in 1986 , 11 pct above its 10 . 9 billion peso sales in 1985 .
it said unaudited net profit was in the neighbourhood of 700 mln pesos , an increase of about 50 pct over 1985 .
rain boosts central queensland sugar cane crop good rains of one to four inches in the past 10 days have boosted moisture - stressed sugar cane crops in the mackay - burdekin region of queensland ' s central coast , an australian sugar producers ' association spokesman said .
as previously reported , the region has been undergoing a severe dry spell , partly relieved by scattered rainfall , since december , following the virtual failure of the summer wet season .
mills in the area have been reporting that their crops are beginning to look healthy and greener and are putting on growth since the rains began , the spokesman said from brisbane .
although the mackay - burdekin crop outlook is much better than it was , there will be some cane losses , the spokesman said .
but is too early to say what they will be and more rain is needed to restore sub - soil moisture .
elsewhere , in far north queensland , the bundaberg region and southern queensland , the cane is in excellent condition and some mills are forecasting record crops , he said .
initial 1987 crop estimates will probably be compiled towards the end of may , he said .
the cane crush normally runs from june to december .
french traders forecast ec sugar tender the european community ( ec ) is expected to award export licences at today ' s weekly tender for above 60 , 000 and possibly up to 100 , 000 tonnes of white sugar after last week ' s award for 102 , 350 tonnes , traders here said .
they expected a maximum rebate of between 46 . 40 and 46 . 50 ecus per 100 kilos , compared to last week ' s 46 . 864 .
earlier , traders in london said the outcome of the tender was very hard to predict after last week ' s substantial award and the placing of 785 , 000 tonnes of sugar into intervention .
they said they believed the tonnage would be around 60 , 000 but declined to give a rebate figure .
italy ' s la fondiaria to report higher 1986 profits italian insurer la fondiaria spa & lt ; lfdi . mi > said it expects to report consolidated group profit in 1986 significantly higher than the 60 billion lire reported in 1985 .
the company said in a statement that parent company net profit last year will rise from the 72 billion lire reported in 1985 .
consolidated group premiums totaled 1 , 700 billion lire in 1986 compared with 1 , 490 billion the previous year .
iniziativa meta & lt ; inzi . mi > , the financial services unit of montedison spa & lt ; moni . mi > , controls the largest single stake in florence - based fondiaria with 49 . 9 pct .
nickel prices unlikely to rise much - shearson nickel prices are unlikely to rise significantly from current levels unless further steps are taken to reduce production , shearson lehman brothers said in its quarterly nickel market report .
the market had recovered slightly to around 1 . 72 dlrs a lb yesterday from its four year low of 1 . 55 dlrs in early january , due to the absence of soviet nickel cathode deliveries , but shearson sees soviet shipments soon returning to last year ' s buoyant levels , which should ease current tightness .
output reductions by producers will take effect later this year but are likely to be offset by increases elsewhere .
shearson said the nickel market will be virtually in balance during 1987 , with total non - socialist world demand at 556 , 000 tonnes , compared with an estimated 544 , 000 tonnes in 1986 , production at 505 , 000 tonnes ( 504 , 000 ) and imports from socialist countries at 47 , 000 tonnes ( 50 , 000 ) .
it forecast prices will edge higher during the year from a first quarter average of 1 . 67 dlrs a lb up to 1 . 77 dlrs in the last quarter .
the year ' s average will be around 1 . 72 dlrs a lb compared with 1 . 76 dlrs in 1986 , using london metal exchange cash metal prices in dollar terms and assuming an average 1987 sterling exchange rate of 1 . 55 dlrs .
higher 1986 profit for dutch chemical firm dsm the fully state - owned dutch chemical firm nv dsm & lt ; dsmn . as > said its 1986 net profit rose to 412 mln guilders from 402 mln in 1985 , while turnover fell to 17 . 7 billion guilders in 1986 from 24 . 1 billion in 1985 .
the company said 1986 dividend , which will be paid to the dutch state in its capacity of the firm ' s sole shareholder , would be raised to 98 mln guilders from 70 mln guilders in 1985 .
in an initial comment on its 1986 results , dsm said the drop in 1986 turnover had been caused mainly by losses in the company ' s fertilizer division .
poehl warns against further dollar fall bundesbank president karl otto poehl said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained west german economic growth .
in a speech to the institute of contempory german affairs here , poehl said `` it would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit . ''
he said the united states could face a vicious circle of depreciation , inflation and more depreciation if it took that route .
poehl noted west germany had already taken steps to meet u . s .
demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy , accelerating tax cuts , cutting interest rates and tolerating above - target money supply growth .
he said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for january 1988 to the beginning of this year , but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the west german parliament .
but there were also limits to the impact west germany could accept on exports from a rising mark , he said .
poehl said west germany relied on exports for about one - third of its gross national product , so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home .
`` a further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth , '' he said .
poehl said the bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors , including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade , had given some extra leeway .
but poehl said west germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy .
the underlying rate of inflation was now two pct , not the reported negative inflation rates last year , and west germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments .
`` for the time being , we will have to focus our policy more on the external side , and we can live with a more expansionary money supply .
but we must be very careful , '' he said .
he said he shared some of the u . s . concern about japan ' s trade surpluses , which affected european countries as well as the united states .
poehl welcomed the so - called louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries , saying the importance of the february 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated .
all partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level , and that further changes would damage growth , he said .
`` this was a remarkable change in attitude , especially on the part of our american colleagues , '' he said .
but he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollar ' s value could overshoot .
cincinnati bell & lt ; csn > starts auxton & lt ; auxt > bid cincinnati bell inc said it has started its previously - announced 15 . 75 dlr per share tender offer for all shares of auxton computer enterprises inc .
in a newspaper advertisement , the company said the tender and withdrawal rights will expire may five unless extended .
the offer , which has been approved by the auxton board and is to be followed by a merger at the same price , is conditioned on receipt of a majority of auxton ' s voting stock on a fully diluted basis .
california biotech & lt ; cbio > sees 1st qtr loss california biotechnology inc said it expects to report a loss of 1 , 300 , 000 dlrs to 1 , 600 , 000 dlrs for the first quarter due to increased investment in research and manufacturing and a scaleup of production .
the company said research spending is running 50 to 60 pct above a year ago as it tries to commercialize its products as quickly as possible , and increased expenditures are expected to continue for several more quarters .
it said operating results will fluctuate quarter to quarter , depending on the timing of significant payments from commercial partners .
in the first three months of 1986 , the company lost 150 , 000 dlrs .
the company changed its fiscal year in 1986 to a calendar year from a year ending november 30 .
for the first quarter of last year , ended february 28 , california biotech earned 114 , 000 dlrs .
pall corp & lt ; pll > sets quarterly dividend qtly div 8 - 1 / 2 cts vs 8 - 1 / 2 cts prior pay may one record april 20
unilever seeks buyer for stauffer chemical unilever plc and nv & lt ; un . as > has issued a prospectus through investment bankers goldman sachs and co seeking a buyer for & lt ; stauffer chemical co > of the u . s . , which it acquired with the recent takeover of & lt ; chesebrough - pond ' s inc > , a unilever spokesman said .
he noted unilever has been indicating plans to dispose of stauffer , plus some smaller assets of chesebrough , since the bid was made in december .
the stauffer sale prospectus has been sent in recent weeks to a number of companies expressing interest .
the unilever spokesman declined to say how much the group expected to receive for stauffer .
chesebrough ' s footwear and tennis racket businesses are also likely to be disposed of , he added .
immediately available financial information on stauffer , which is wholly - owned , was limited , he added .
nine month sales to september 1986 were about 1 . 2 billion dlrs .
unilever aquired chesebrough for 3 . 2 billion dlrs in order to benefit from its well - known toiletry brands and food products .
conrac corp said it has entered talks on its acquisition with several parties conrac corp said it has entered talks on its acquisition with several parties
conrac & lt ; cax > in merger talks with several conrac corp sait has started negotiations with several interested parties on its possible acquisition .
it said there can be no assurance that any transaction will result from the talks .
it gave no further details .
mark iv industries inc & lt ; iv > started tendering for all conrac shares at 25 dlrs each on march 24 and owned 9 . 9 pct of conrac before starting the bid .
conrac is a producer and marketer of computer - related information display and communications equipment which also produces special purpose architectural and industrial products .
it owns code - a - phone corp , a producer of telephone answering machines .
for 1986 , the company reported profits of 7 . 8 mln dlrs , or 1 . 16 dlrs a share , on sales of 153 . 9 mln dlrs .
it has nearly 6 . 8 mln shares outstanding .
japan ' s ldp urges more imports of 12 farm items the ruling liberal democratic party ( ldp ) has proposed expanding imports of 12 farm products named in a u . s . complaint against japan to the general agreement on tariffs and trade last year , an ldp official said .
the products include fruit juices , purees and pulp , some tomato products , peanuts , prepared beef products and beans .
the proposal will be used as the basis for a more detailed ldp economic package to cut the trade surplus with the u . s .
the party is expected to formalise the package before april 19 , when ldp general council chairman shintaro abe visits washington .
computer research inc & lt ; core > 2nd qtr feb 28 net shr 14 cts vs nine cts net 217 , 572 vs 153 , 454 revs 2 , 530 , 273 vs 2 , 558 , 924 1st half shr 19 cts vs 11 cts net 299 , 838 vs 174 , 739 revs 4 , 865 , 249 vs 4 , 495 , 021
australian foreign ship ban ends tug crews in new south wales ( nsw ) , victoria and western australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign - flag ships carrying containers but nsw ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute , shipping sources said .
the ban , imposed a week ago over a pay claim , had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels , they said .
the pay dispute went before a hearing of the arbitration commission today .
meanwhile , disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of sydney , newcastle and port kembla , they said .
the industrial action at the nsw ports is part of the week of action called by the nsw trades and labour council to protest changes to the state ' s workers ' compensation laws .
rubbermaid inc 1st qtr shr 28 cts vs 22 cts rubbermaid inc 1st qtr shr 28 cts vs 22 cts
independent chairman for dutch cargo dispute the two sides in the rotterdam port general cargo dispute have agreed to appoint an independent chairman , han lammers , to preside over future meetings , employers ' spokesman gerard zeebregts said .
lammers , queen ' s commissioner for the province of flevoland , will not act as a mediator but will draw up an agenda and procedures for meetings between the employers and unions on a work - practice agreement and proposed redundancies .
two months of strikes in the sector began on january 19 in protest at employers ' proposals for 350 redundancies from the 4 , 000 - strong workforce this year .
the strikes were called off by the main port union fnv on march 13 following an amsterdam court ' s interim injunction against the redundancies on procedural grounds .
the court is due to make a final ruling on may 7 but zeebregts said he expected the judgment to go against the employers and they were therefore very likely to restart the complicated legal redundancy procedures in the near future .
meanwhile , the dispute over a new work - practice agreement in the port ' s grain sector continued , with 30 maintenance workers on strike , although loading was not affected , a spokesman for graan elevator mij , the largest employer in the sector , said .
the employers have written to the union asking it to reconsider its position and a meeting of union members has been called for tomorrow .
electro rent corp & lt ; elrc > 3rd qtr feb 28 net shr 20 cts vs 32 cts net 1 , 358 , 000 vs 2 , 476 , 000 revs 27 . 1 mln vs 26 . 2 mln avg shrs 6 , 852 , 000 vs 7 , 764 , 000 nine mths shr 68 cts vs 1 . 05 dlrs net 4 , 957 , 000 vs 8 , 129 , 000 revs 82 . 6 mln vs 78 . 8 mln avg shrs 7 , 316 , 000 vs 7 , 754 , 000
rubbermaid inc & lt ; rbd > 1st qtr net shr 28 cts vs 22 cts net 20 . 6 mln vs 16 . 1 mln sales 238 . 0 mln vs 188 . 8 mln
wtc international inc & lt ; waf > 4th qtr feb 28 net shr profit 13 cts vs loss 33 cts net profit 1 , 149 , 000 vs loss 2 , 833 , 000 rev 51 . 8 mln vs 47 . 8 mln year shr profit 24 cts vs loss 18 cts net profit 2 , 050 , 000 vs loss 1 , 551 , 000 rev 200 . 6 mln vs 180 . 1 mln
u . k . money market given further 166 mln stg help the bank of england said it provided the market with further help totalling 166 mln stg during the afternoon .
in band one , it bought 31 mln stg of treasury bills and three mln stg of bank bills at 9 - 7 / 8 pct , while in band two it bought 69 mln stg of bank bills at 9 - 13 / 16 pct .
in addition , it bought 63 mln stg of band three bank bills at 9 - 3 / 4 pct .
this brings the total assistance by the bank so far today to 219 mln stg against a liquidity shortage it has estimated at around 300 mln stg .
mead corp 1st qtr oper shr 1 . 09 dlrs vs 67 cts mead corp 1st qtr oper shr 1 . 09 dlrs vs 67 cts
rubbermaid & lt ; rbd > sees continued improvement rubbermaid inc said its incoming order rates continue strong and it expects to continue recording favorable year to year comparisons in each remaining quarter of 1987 .
today the company reported first quarter earnings of 20 . 6 mln dlrs on sales of 238 . 0 mln dlrs , up from earnings of 16 . 1 mln dlrs on sales of 188 . 8 mln dlrs .
cayuga savings bank & lt ; cayb > 1st qtr net shr 55 cts vs 41 cts net 494 , 000 vs 204 , 000 avg shrs 896 , 655 vs 494 , 155
johnstown savings bank fsb & lt ; jsbk > 1st qtr net shr 33 cts vs not given net 642 , 484 vs 362 , 883 note : company went public in october 1986 .
net includes pretax loan loss provisions of 90 , 000 dlrs vs 56 , 250 dlrs and gain on sale of securities of 113 , 432 dlrs vs 88 , 946 dlrs .
home savings and loan association inc & lt ; hsld > 2nd qtr march 31 shr 57 cts vs not given net 790 , 874 vs 628 , 020 1st half shr 1 . 15 dlrs vs not given net 1 , 588 , 985 vs 1 , 073 , 163 note : company recently went public .
geodynamics corp & lt ; gdyn > 3rd qtr feb 27 net shr 21 cts vs 20 cts net 596 , 000 vs 594 , 000 revs 8 , 693 , 000 vs 8 , 164 , 000 nine mths shr 61 cts vs 58 cts net 1 , 784 , 000 vs 1 , 653 , 000 revs 26 . 3 mln vs 23 . 0 mln
swedish unemployment steady in march swedish unemployment was steady at 2 . 2 pct of the workforce in march compared with the previous month , the central bureau of statistics said .
in march 1986 , the figure stood at 2 . 4 pct .
compaq & lt ; cpq > expects higher first quarter net compaq computer corp said it expects sales and earnings for the first quarter of 1987 to be higher than analysts expectations due to strong demand for its products .
rod canion , president and chief executive officer of compaq , said he expects sales of over 200 mln dlrs for the period ending march 31 , above analysts ' estimates of 165 - 185 mln dlrs .
he added that earnings per share would exceed analysts estimates of as high as 42 cts a share .
compaq reported earnings of 8 . 3 mln dlrs , or 30 cts a share , and sales of 144 mln dlrs for the first quarter 1986 .
the company said demand for its deskpro 386 , portable iii and the new compaq deskpro 286 will contribute to the sales increase .
`` the initial demand for the recently introduced compaq portable iii and the new models of the compaq deskpro 286 exceeds that of any other compaq personal computers , '' canion said .
`` we saw continued demand for our personal computers across the quarter , with march ( 1987 ) being a particularly strong month .
i . u .
international & lt ; iu > to sell insurance units i . u .
international co said it reached a preliminary agreement to sell the hawaiian insurance cos to hawaiian electric industries inc . & lt ; he > .
terms of the transaction were not disclosed , the company said .
the transaction is subject to the execution of definitive agreements , certain governmental approvals and approvals by the boards of directors involved , i . u .
international said .
hawaiian electric said the planned purchase was part of its strategy to increase the company ' s investment in selected service industries in hawaii , including financial services .
cxr telcom corp & lt ; cxrl > 3rd qtr march 31 net shr nil vs nil net 215 , 000 vs 16 , 000 revs 2 , 800 , 000 vs 1 , 100 , 000 nine mths shr one ct vs nil net 620 , 000 vs 231 , 000 revs 8 , 100 , 000 vs 2 , 100 , 000
proxmire outlines insider trading legislation senate banking committee chairman william proxmire ( d - wis ) said he planned to introduce legislation shortly to require greater public disclosure of corporate takeovers and fairer treatment for all shareholders .
speaking to the national association of manufacturers , proxmire said recent insider trading stock scandals increased the chance that congress will act to curb abuses .
`` we are proposing legislation that would provide for more disclosure , would be fairer to all shareholders , and would insure that takeovers are properly financed , '' he said .
among the provisions , the bill would reduce the threshold for notifying the securities and exchange commission that a investor or group has acquired a percentage of stock in a company to three pct from the current five pct threshold within 10 days , proxmire said .
in addition , there would be a pre - notificaton requirement that an investor intended to aquire three pct that would have to filed with the sec .
proxmire said the pre - notification requirement was meant to prevent arbitragers from having a jump on the general public in knowing about coming takeover attempts .
proxmire said he would call for extending the period that a tender offer must be kept open under the williams act to 60 business days from the current 20 business days .
his bill would provide for private suits if the acquiring company violated the time period on the tender offer .
to correct abuses in the financing of takeovers , proxmire said the legislation would aim at insuring current margin requirments are properly enforced .
the federal reserve board has a 50 pct margin requirement for purchasing stock , but proxmire said it is not generally enforced in hostile takeovers .
rather , the groups or individuals leading a takeover declare that they can raise the capital for a takeover without actually putting any of their own money , proxmire said .
he said his bill would allow private suits for damages for failure to meet the federal reserve ' s 50 pct margin requirements .
the bill also would require more disclose when several investors form an alliance in a hostile takeover .
`` when pickens and icahn get together we want people to know about it , '' proxmire said .
proxmire said he favored the approach used in britain towards two - tiered tender offers that insures that all shareholders recieve equal treatment .
he said he expected amendments to the bill also would cover defensive mechanisms such as green mail and poison pills .
proxmire said he intended to introduce his bill later this month and predicted the senate committee would act this spring .
he said he was hopeful congress could pass a bill this year .
helen of troy corp & lt ; hele > 4th qtr feb 28 net shr 17 cts vs 13 cts net 598 , 000 vs 392 , 000 sales 10 . 2 mln vs 7 , 474 , 000 avg shrs 3 , 432 , 000 vs 3 , 045 , 000 year oper shr profit 1 . 05 dlrs vs loss 47 cts oper net profit 3 , 498 , 000 vs loss 1 , 427 , 000 sales 52 . 2 mln vs 40 . 8 mln avg shrs 3 , 320 , 000 vs 3 , 060 , 000 note : latest year net excludes 782 , 000 dlr tax credit .
bankers trust & lt ; bt > puts brazil on non - accrual bankers trust new york corp said it has placed its approximately 540 mln dlrs of medium - and long - term loans to brazil on non - accrual status and that first - quarter net income will be reduced by about seven mln dlrs as a result .
brazil suspended interest payments on its 68 billion dlrs of medium - and long - term debt on february 22 .
u . s . banking regulations do not require banks to stop accruing interest on loans until payments are 90 days overdue , but bankers trust said it acted now because of `` the high potential of a continued suspension that would result in reaching the 90 - day limit in the second quarter of 1987 . ''
assuming no cash payments at current interest rates are received for the rest of 1987 , bankers trust estimated that full - year net income would be reduced by about 30 mln dlrs .
bankers trust said it assumes that debt negotiations between brazil and its commercial bank lenders will lead to the resumption of interest payments .
the negotiations resume in new york on friday when central bank governor francisco gros is expected to ask banks for a 90 - day rollover of some 9 . 5 billion dlrs of term debt that matures on april 15 .
& lt ; first mercantile currency fund inc > 1st qtr net shr profit 63 cts vs 22 cts net 775 , 868 vs 276 , 446 revs 2 , 255 , 742 vs 706 , 130
uk intervention bd says ec sold 118 , 350 tonnes white sugar at rebate 46 . 496 ecus .
uk intervention bd says ec sold 118 , 350 tonnes white sugar at rebate 46 . 496 ecus .
stoltenberg sees moves to strengthen paris accord west german finance minister gerhard stoltenberg said today ' s meetings of major industrial countries would look at ways of strengthening the paris accord on stabilizing foreign exchange rates .
stoltenberg told journalists he saw no fundamental weakness of the february 22 agreement of the group of five countries and canada to keep exchange rates near the then - current levels .
but he declined to say what measures would be discussed ahead of a communique of the group of seven ministers later today .
stoltenberg and bundesbank president karl otto poehl said the importance of the paris agreement , also known as the louvre accord , had been underestimated .
stoltenberg said there is greater agreement now among major countries than six months ago , at the time of the annual meeting of the international monetary fund and world bank , marked by sharp discord between the united states and its major trading partners .
`` there is no fundamental weakness of the paris accord , '' he said .
`` we will be looking at ways of strengthening it , but i do not want to discuss that here .
stoltenberg said the louvre agreement was working despite a `` slight firming `` of the yen against the dollar .
and poehl noted that the dollar / mark parity was unchanged since february 22 without the bundesbank having had to sell marks to support the dollar .
`` the louvre agreement has been honored by the market , '' he said .
poehl said west germany had lived up to its side of the bargain in paris by preparing the way for tax cuts to be accelerated as a way of stimulating growth .
poehl said , however , that japan had not yet fulfilled its pledges for economic stimulation .
`` and we will have to see if the united states is able to do what they promised in paris on reducing the budget deficit -- and get it through congress , '' he added .
stoltenberg reiterated west german concern about a further fall in the dollar , noting that the mark was up 85 pct against the dollar and nearly 20 pct on a trade - weighted basis .
`` you can not expect that to go unnoticed in an economy .
and it is not just a german problem , it is a european problem , '' he said .
u . k .
intervention board details ec sugar sales a total 118 , 350 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 46 . 496 european currency units ( ecus ) per 100 kilos at today ' s european community ( ec ) tender , the u . k .
intervention board said .
out of this , traders in the u . k .
received 37 , 800 tonnes , in france 34 , 500 , in west germany 20 , 000 , in belgium 18 , 500 , in spain 5 , 800 and in denmark 1 , 750 tonnes , it added .
earlier today , london traders had declined to give a projected view on the level of subsidy although some said total tonnage awards would be around 60 , 000 tonnes .
paris traders foresaw between 60 , 000 and 100 , 000 tonnes being authorised for export at a 46 . 40 / 46 . 50 ecu subsidy .
cumulative sales authorisations for the current season ( 1986 / 87 ) now stand at 2 , 194 , 970 tonnes ( 43 weeks ) .
last week saw 102 , 350 tonnes whites authorised for export under licences to end - sep at the higest ever rebate of 46 . 864 european currency units ( ecus ) per 100 kilos .
mead & lt ; mea > expects improved earnings this year mead corp said the outlook for its major paper markets looks strong for the second quarter and augurs well for its earnings in 1987 .
`` the generally strong outlook bodes well for significantly improved earnings this year , '' burnell roberts , chairman and chief executive officer said .
earlier , the company reported first quarter earnings of 34 . 2 mln dlrs , or 1 . 09 dlrs a share , versus 20 . 3 mln dlrs , or 65 cts a share , in last year ' s first quarter .
in 1986 the company reported earnings from continuing operations of 109 . 3 mln dlrs , or 3 . 50 dlrs a share .
mead said its first quarter benefitted from stronger market conditions and improved operations .
`` the combination of capital improvement programs and more employee involvement has been paying off throughout our paper operations , '' roberts said .
he added that mead ' s pulp and paperboard businesses are operating well as prices have improved and strong demand has placed most products in a sold - out position through the middle of the year .
mead said sales of its unbleached coated paperboard was particularly strong , up 13 pct versus the first quarter 1986 .
amertek inc & lt ; atekf > 1st qtr net shr profit 20 cts vs loss three cts net profit 849 , 299 vs loss 82 , 512 revs 7 , 929 , 138 vs 3 , 849 , 224
alex brown inc & lt ; absb > 1st qtr march 27 net shr primary 78 cts vs 68 cts shr diluted 75 cts vs 68 cts qtrly div six cts vs five cts net 7 , 929 , 000 vs 6 , 569 , 000 revs 78 . 7 mln vs 61 . 9 mln note : pay date for the qtrly div is april 28 for shareholders of record april 20 .
town and country jewelry manufacturing & lt ; tcjc > 4thh qtr feb 28 shr 46 cts vs 22 cts net 2 , 139 , 034 vs 854 , 182 sales 30 . 8 mln vs 20 . 6 mln avg shrs 5 , 280 , 854 vs 4 , 559 , 646 year shr 1 . 34 dlrs vs 1 . 15 dlrs net 5 , 935 , 117 vs 4 , 156 , 171 sales 107 . 2 mln vs 71 . 6 mln avg shrs 5 , 281 , 387 vs 3 , 616 , 183 note : town and country jewelry manufacturing corp .
paxar corp & lt ; paks > makes acquisition paxar corp said it has acquired thermo - print gmbh of lohn , west germany , a distributor of paxar products , for undisclosed terms .
& lt ; mark ' s work wearhouse ltd > year jan 31 net shr 10 cts vs 32 cts net 975 , 000 vs 3 , 145 , 000 sales 159 . 1 mln vs 147 . 3 mln
canadian bashaw , erskine resources to merge canadian bashaw leduc oil and gas ltd said it agreed to merge with erskine resources ltd .
terms were not disclosed .
ownership of the combined company with 18 . 8 pct for the current shareholders of canadian bashaw and 81 . 2 pct to the current shareholders of erskine , the companies said .
entourage & lt ; entg > has first quarter loss entourage international inc said it had a first quarter loss of 104 , 357 dlrs , after incurring 70 , 000 dlrs in costs for an internal audit , a report for shareholders and proxy soliciation and 24 , 000 dlrs in startup expenses for opening london offices .
the company went public during 1986 .
entourage also said it has started marketing a solid perfume packaged in a lipstick tube called `` amadeus , '' retailing at 15 dlrs .
the company also said it has acquired north country media group , a video productions company .
& lt ; mr . jax fashions inc > year feb 28 net shr 58 cts vs 29 cts net 3 , 141 , 000 vs 1 , 440 , 000 sales 24 . 7 mln vs 13 . 0 mln
f . w .
woolworth co says it hikes dividend to 33 cts a share from 28 cts
f . w .
woolworth co says it hikes dividend to 33 cts a share from 28 cts
f . w .
woolworth co & lt ; z > hikes dividend qtly div 33 cts vs 28 cts prior pay june 1 record may 1
dutch sugar beet planting half finished roughly half of this year ' s expected 130 , 000 hectare dutch sugar beet crop is already in the ground , a spokesman for suiker unie , the largest sugar processor in the netherlands , told reuters .
conditions are generally good and the average sowing date for the crop is expected to be around april 11 , against april 23 last year , and a 10 - year average of april 14 , the spokesman added .
`` it is far too early yet to say what kind of output we can expect when it comes to harvest in september , but at least the crop is off to a very good start , '' he said .
last year , the netherlands planted a record 137 , 600 hectares of sugar beet and produced a record 1 . 2 mln tonnes of white sugar , substantially more than the country ' s combined `` a `` and `` b `` quota of 872 , 000 tonnes .
this year , however , a self - imposed quota system has been introduced with the aim of cutting plantings to 130 , 000 hectares and reducing white sugar output to around 915 , 000 tonnes to minimise the amount of non - quota `` c `` sugar produced .
only farmers with a record of growing suger beet have been allotted quotas .
this is expected to prevent the area being boosted by dairy or cereal farmers moving into sugar .
j . p . morgan and co inc 1st qtr shr 1 . 22 dlrs vs 1 . 28 dlrs
j . p . morgan and co inc 1st qtr shr 1 . 22 dlrs vs 1 . 28 dlrs
ec commission details sugar tender the ec commission confirmed it granted export licences for 118 , 350 tonnes of current series white sugar at a maximum export rebate of 46 . 496 european currency units ( ecus ) per 100 kilos .
out of this , traders in france received 34 , 500 tonnes , in the u . k . 37 , 800 , in west - germany 20 , 000 , in belgium 18 , 500 , in spain 5 , 800 and in denmark 1 , 750 tonnes .
volkswagen dividend decision due tomorrow volkswagen ag & lt ; vowg . f > , vw , is due to make a formal announcement about its 1986 dividend tomorrow after saying the 1985 level of 10 marks per ordinary share would be held , despite massive losses because of a suspected foreign currency fraud .
a spokesman said vw ' s supervisory board will meet tomorrow to discuss the payout .
a statement will be made afterwards .
vw has also said disclosed profits for 1986 will reach their 1985 level , despite provisions of a possible 480 mln marks linked to the currency affair .
the figure is virtually the same as the 477 mln mark 1985 parent company net profit .
when vw first confirmed the currency scandal on march 10 it said the management board would propose an unchanged 10 - mark dividend to the supervisory board .
a dividend of 11 marks would be proposed for the company ' s new preference shares .
share analysts said they saw supervisory board approval of the management board proposal as virtually a formality .
`` anything else would be more than a surprise , '' one said .
company sources said vw would have to dig into reserves to maintain the disclosed profit .
parent company reserves stood at around three billion marks at end - 1985 .
citytrust bancorp inc & lt ; citr > 1st qtr net shr 1 . 40 dlrs vs 1 . 16 dlrs net 5 , 776 , 000 vs 4 , 429 , 000 avg shrs 4 , 132 , 828 vs 3 , 834 , 117
southmark & lt ; sm > acquires 28 nursing homes southmark corp said it acquired 28 long - term care facilities containing for approximately 70 mln dlrs in cash .
it said the facilities , which contain approximately 2 , 500 beds in seven western states , were bought from don bybee and associates , of salem , ore .
the acquistion brings to 57 health care facilities acquired in the last three months , the company said .
j . p . morgan and co inc & lt ; jpm > 1st qtr net shr 1 . 22 dlrs vs 1 . 28 dlrs net 226 . 4 mln vs 233 . 9 mln assets 80 . 45 billion vs 70 . 23 billion loans 35 . 16 billion vs 35 . 99 billion deposits 45 . 22 billion vs 39 . 68 billion return on assets 1 . 14 pct vs 1 . 35 pct return on common equity 18 . 20 pct vs 22 . 08 pct note : 1987 qtr net was reduced by 20 mln dlrs because 1 . 3 billion dlrs of loans to brazil were placed on non - accrual .
loan loss provision 35 mln dlrs vs 70 mln year earlier .
firstbanc corp of ohio & lt ; fboh > 1st qtr net shr 74 cts vs 67 cts net 8 , 067 , 000 vs 7 , 317 , 000
mayfair super markets inc & lt ; myfra > 2nd qtr net qtr ends feb 28 shr class a 61 cts vs 48 cts shr class b 59 cts vs 46 cts net 2 , 358 , 000 vs 1 , 876 , 000 revs 122 , 508 , 000 vs 105 , 871 , 000 six mths shr class a 1 . 15 dlrs vs 86 cts shr class b 1 . 13 dlrs vs 84 cts net 4 , 485 , 000 vs 3 , 378 , 000 revs 242 , 453 , 000 vs 210 , 117 , 000 note : qtr and six mths prior figures reflect two - for - one stock split in august 1986 .
hanover insurance & lt ; hins > get split approval hanover insurance co said its stockholders approved a two - for - one stock split .
as a result of the split , hanover said it increases the number of authorized shares of capital stock from 10 . 4 mln , having a par value of one dlr , to 20 . 9 mln , also having a par value of one dlr .
the stock split is payable april 30 to stockholders of record april 10 , hanover said .
national guardian & lt ; natg > makes acquisitions national guardian corp said it has acquired a number of security services companies recently , with aggregate revenues of about 3 , 500 , 000 dlrs , for an aggregate cost of about 2 , 700 , 000 dlrs .
it said it acquired guard service companies c . s . c .
security gaurd service of paramus , n . j . , from cartel security consultants inc , the guard services division of security services of america of wayne , n . j . , capital investigations and protective agency of hackensack , n . j . , and meyer detective agency inc of national park , n . j .
the company said it bought alarm service operations certified security services inc of key west , fla . , custom security services of myrtle beach , s . c . , a - t - e security group inc of houston and the louisville , kent and nashville , tenn , offices of wells fargo alarm services .
universal medical & lt ; umbiz > distribution set qtly distribution 7 - 1 / 2 cts vs 7 - 1 / 2 cts prior ( excluding 2 - 1 / 2 cts special ) pay april 30 record april 22 note : full name is universal medical buildings l . p .
zambia does not plan retail maize price hike the zambian government has no immediate plans to follow last week ' s increase in the producer price of maize with a hike in the retail price of maize meal , an official of the ruling party said .
last december , a 120 pct increase in the consumer price for refined maize meal , a zambian staple , led to food riots in which at least 15 people died .
that price increase , which president kenneth kaunda later revoked , followed pressure by the international monetary fund ( imf ) to reduce the government ' s subsidy bill .
however , if the producer price rise , from 6 . 10 dlrs to 8 . 67 dlrs per 90 - kg bag , is not accompanied by a retail price increase , the government will have to spend more on subsidies , a practice discouraged by the imf .
`` there is no way out but to raise the subsidy levels of meal .
it ( the government ) would have to choose between the demands of the imf and those of the people , '' a ministry of agriculture economist said .
wedgestone realty & lt ; wdg > acquisition approved wedgestone realty investors trust said shareholkders have approved the acquisition of its advisor , wedgestone advisory corp , for 600 , 000 shares .
it said completion is expected to take place april 10 .
sun & lt ; sun > cuts heating oil barge price sun co ' s sun refining and marketing co subsidiary said it is decreasing the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in ny harbor by 0 . 50 cent a gallon , effective today .
the 0 . 50 cent a gallon price reduction brings sun ' s heating oil contract barge price to 50 cts a gallon , the company said .
further argentine coarse grain losses feared argentine grain producers adjusted their yield estimates for the 1986 / 87 coarse grain crop downward in the week to yesterday after the heavy rains at the end of march and beginning of april , trade sources said .
they said sunflower , maize and sorghum production estimates had been reduced despite some later warm , dry weather , which has allowed a return to harvesting in some areas .
however , as showers fell intermittently after last weekend , producers feared another spell of prolonged and intense rain could cause more damage to crops already badly hit this season .
rains in the middle of last week reached an average of 27 millimetres in parts of buenos aires province , 83 mm in cordoba , 41 in santa fe , 50 in entre rios and misiones , 95 in corrientes , eight in chaco and 35 in formosa .
there was no rainfall in the same period in la pampa .
producers feared continued damp conditions could produce rotting and lead to still lower yield estimates for all the crops , including soybean .
however , as the lands began drying later in the week harvesting advanced considerably , reaching between 36 and 40 pct of the area sown in the case of sunflower .
deterioration of the sunflower crop evident in harvested material in cordoba , la pampa and buenos aires forced yield estimates per hectare to be adjusted down again .
the season ' s sunflowerseed production is now forecast at 2 . 1 mln to 2 . 3 mln tonnes , against 2 . 2 mln to 2 . 4 mln forecast last week and down 43 . 9 to 48 . 8 pct on the 1985 / 86 record of 4 . 1 mln .
area sown to sunflowers was two to 2 . 2 mln hectares , 29 . 9 to 36 . 3 pct below the record 3 . 14 mln hectares last season .
maize harvesting has also reached 36 to 40 pct of the area sown .
it is near completion in cordoba and santa fe and will begin in la pampa and southern buenos aires later in april .
production estimates for maize were down from last week at 9 . 5 mln to 9 . 8 mln tonnes , against 9 . 6 mln to 9 . 9 mln estimated previously .
this is 22 . 2 to 23 . 4 pct below the 12 . 4 mln to 12 . 6 mln tonnes estimated by private sources for the 1985 / 86 crop and 21 . 9 to 25 . 8 pct down on the official figure of 12 . 8 mln tonnes .
maize was sown on 3 . 58 mln to 3 . 78 mln hectares , two to seven pct down on last season ' s 3 . 85 mln .
sorghum was harvested on 23 to 25 pct of the area sown in cordoba , santa fe and chaco .
harvest will start in la pampa and buenos aires in mid - april .
the total area sown was 1 . 23 mln to 1 . 30 mln hectares , 10 . 3 to 15 . 2 pct down on the 1 . 45 mln sown last season .
the new forecast for the sorghum crop is 2 . 9 mln to 3 . 2 mln tonnes compared with three mln to 3 . 3 mln forecast last week , and is 23 . 8 to 29 . 3 pct down on last season ' s 4 . 1 mln to 4 . 2 mln tonne crop .
the soybean crop for this season was not adjusted , remaining at a record 7 . 5 mln to 7 . 7 mln tonnes , up 4 . 2 to 5 . 5 pct on the 7 . 2 mln to 7 . 3 mln estimated by private sources for 1985 / 86 and 5 . 6 to 8 . 5 pct higher than the official figure of 7 . 1 mln .
the area sown to soybeans this season was a record 3 . 7 mln to 3 . 8 mln hectares , 10 . 8 to 13 . 8 pct up on the record 3 . 34 mln sown in 1985 / 86 .
the soybean crop is showing excessive moisture in some areas and producers fear they may discover more damage .
some experimental harvesting was carried out in santa fe on areas making up only about one pct of the total crop but details on this were not available .
preparation of the fields for the 1987 / 88 wheat crop , which will be sown between may and august or september , has so far not been as intense as in previous years .
dutch adjusted unemployment rises in march dutch seasonally adjusted unemployment rose in the month to end - march to a total 693 , 000 from 690 , 600 at end - february , but was well down from 730 , 100 at end - march 1986 , social affairs ministry figures show .
the figure for male jobless rose by 2 , 000 in the month to 436 , 500 compared with 470 , 700 a year earlier .
the figure for women was 256 , 500 at end - march against 256 , 100 a month earlier and 259 , 400 at end - march 1986 .
on an unadjusted basis total unemployment fell by 16 , 500 in the month to end - march to 692 , 200 .
in march 1986 the figure was 725 , 000 .
a ministry spokesman said the unadjusted figures showed a smaller than usual seasonal decrease for the time of year , because of particularly cold weather delaying work in the building industry .
he said this explained the increase in the adjusted statistics .
total vacancies available rose by 1 , 900 to 26 , 300 at end - march .
a year earlier the figure was 28 , 763 .
8 - apr - 1987 11 : 06 : 39 . 06 8 - apr - 1987 11 : 06 : 39 . 06
top officials arrive at treasury for g - 5 talks top officials of leading industrial nations arrived at the u . s . treasury main building to begin a meeting of the group of five .
officials seen arriving by reuter correspondents included west german finance minister gerhard stoltenberg and bundesbank president karl otto poehl , french finance minister edouard balladur and his central banker jacques de larosiere .
also seen arriving were japanese finance minister kiichi miyazawa and japan ' s central bank governor satoshi sumita and british chancellor of the exchequer and central bank governor robin leigh pemberton .
there was no immediate sign of italian or canadian officials .
monetary sources have said a fully blown meeting of the group of seven is expected to begin around 3 p . m . local time ( 1900 gmt ) and last at least until 6 p . m . ( 2200 gmt ) , when a communique is expected to be issued .
italian sources said italian acting finance minister giovanni goria met treasury secretary james baker last night .
at those talks baker apparently convinced goria , who declined to attend the february meeting of the group of seven in paris , that italy would participate fully in any meaningful decisions .
fed expected to set customer repurchases the federal reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements , economists said .
economists expect the fed to execute 2 . 0 - 2 . 5 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset pressures from the end of the two - week bank reserve maintenance period today .
some also look for a permanent reserve injection to offset seasonal pressures via an outright purchase of bills or coupons this afternoon .
the federal funds rate opened at 6 - 3 / 8 pct and remained at that level , up from yesterday ' s 6 . 17 pct average .
reader ' s digest association sells unit & lt ; the reader ' s digest association inc > said it sold its subsidiary , source telecomputing corp , to the venture capital firm of & lt ; welsh , carson , anderson and stowe > .
the purchase price was not disclosed , reader ' s digest said .
it said it purchased an 80 pct stake in source in 1980 and earned an unspecified profit on 14 mln dlrs in revenues in 1986 .
weis markets inc & lt ; wmk > 1st qtr march 28 net shr 59 cts vs 51 cts net 18 . 0 mln vs 15 . 6 mln revs 278 . 6 mln vs 272 . 2 mln
continental bank initial distribution approved continental bank of canada said shareholders approved a capital reorganization to allow an initial payout by the end of may to common shareholders from last year ' s 200 mln canadian dlr sale of most continental assets to & lt ; lloyds bank plc > ' s lloyds bank canada .
the bank said the initial distribution would take the form of a stock dividend of cumulative redeemable retractable class a series two preferred shares entitling holders to monthly floating rate dividends at 72 pct of prime and to 12 . 75 dlrs a share on retraction .
continental said the initial payout was subject to canadian government approval .
the bank reiterated that total distributions to common shareholders would range from 16 . 50 dlrs a share to 17 . 25 dlrs including the initial stock dividend and a final distribution in late 1988 or early 1989 .
the payout of existing preferred shareholders will be completed just before next month ' s initial distribution to common shareholders , continental added .
atlas consolidated mining and development & lt ; acmb > 4th qtr shr loss 17 cts vs loss 22 cts net loss 14 . 5 mln vs loss 18 . 0 mln revs 27 . 3 mln vs 23 . 7 mln year shr 58 cts vs 1 . 01 dlrs net loss 48 . 3 mln vs loss 84 . 2 mln revs 111 . 7 mln vs 141 . 9 mln note : atlas consolidated mining and development corp of manila .
translated from philippine pesos at 20 . 3489 pesos to dollar vs 18 . 5571 in quarter and 20 . 2315 vs 18 . 2743 in year .
sci - med & lt ; smls > board agrees to bristol & lt ; bmy > deal sci - med life systems inc said its directors approved a previously proposed agreement of merger with bristol - myers co .
the proposed transaction is subject to completion of a due diligence investigation , including a review by bristol - myers of a patent infringement suit served on sci - med by advanced cardiovascular systems inc on march 31 , 1987 .
bristol - myers has the right to call off the agreement under certain circumstances , it said .
sci - med said it continues to believe the patent suit is without merit .
fidelcor & lt ; ficr > completes sale of unit fidelcor inc said it has completed the sale of its industrial valley title insurance co subsidiary to a group of investors including the unit ' s management for undisclosed terms .
industrial valley has assets of about 37 . 6 mln dlrs and was acquired last year along with ivb financial corp .
data translation inc & lt ; datx > 1st qtr feb 28 net shr 18 cts vs 13 cts net 575 , 000 vs 379 , 000 sales 6 , 625 , 000 vs 4 , 537 , 000 avg shrs 3 , 173 , 000 vs 2 , 977 , 000
energy / u . s .
petrochemical industry cheap oil feedstocks , the weakened u . s . dollar and a plant utilization rate approaching 90 pct will propel the streamlined u . s . petrochemical industry to record profits this year , with growth expected through at least 1990 , major company executives predicted .
this bullish outlook for chemical manufacturing and an industrywide move to shed unrelated businesses has prompted gaf corp & lt ; gaf > , privately - held cain chemical inc , and other firms to aggressively seek acquisitions of petrochemical plants .
oil companies such as ashland oil inc & lt ; ash > , the kentucky - based oil refiner and marketer , are also shopping for money - making petrochemical businesses to buy .
`` i see us poised at the threshold of a golden period , '' said paul oreffice , chairman of giant dow chemical co & lt ; dow > , adding , `` there ' s no major plant capacity being added around the world now .
the whole game is bringing out new products and improving the old ones . ''
analysts say the chemical industry ' s biggest customers , automobile manufacturers and home builders that use a lot of paints and plastics , are expected to buy quantities this year .
u . s . petrochemical plants are currently operating at about 90 pct capacity , reflecting tighter supply that could hike product prices by 30 to 40 pct this year , said john dosher , managing director of pace consultants inc of houston .
demand for some products such as styrene could push profit margins up by as much as 300 pct , he said .
oreffice , speaking at a meeting of chemical engineers in houston , said dow would easily top the 741 mln dlrs it earned last year and predicted it would have the best year in its history .
in 1985 , when oil prices were still above 25 dlrs a barrel and chemical exports were adversely affected by the strong u . s . dollar , dow had profits of 58 mln dlrs .
`` i believe the entire chemical industry is headed for a record year or close to it , '' oreffice said .
gaf chairman samuel heyman estimated that the u . s . chemical industry would report a 20 pct gain in profits during 1987 .
last year , the domestic industry earned a total of 13 billion dlrs , a 54 pct leap from 1985 .
the turn in the fortunes of the once - sickly chemical industry has been brought about by a combination of luck and planning , said pace ' s john dosher .
dosher said last year ' s fall in oil prices made feedstocks dramatically cheaper and at the same time the american dollar was weakening against foreign currencies .
that helped boost u . s . chemical exports .
also helping to bring supply and demand into balance has been the gradual market absorption of the extra chemical manufacturing capacity created by middle eastern oil producers in the early 1980s .
finally , virtually all major u . s . chemical manufacturers have embarked on an extensive corporate restructuring program to mothball inefficient plants , trim the payroll and eliminate unrelated businesses .
the restructuring touched off a flurry of friendly and hostile takeover attempts .
gaf , which made an unsuccessful attempt in 1985 to acquire union carbide corp & lt ; uk > , recently offered three billion dlrs for borg warner corp & lt ; bor > , a chicago manufacturer of plastics and chemicals .
another industry powerhouse , w . r . grace & lt ; gra > has divested its retailing , restaurant and fertilizer businesses to raise cash for chemical acquisitions .
but some experts worry that the chemical industry may be headed for trouble if companies continue turning their back on the manufacturing of staple petrochemical commodities , such as ethylene , in favor of more profitable specialty chemicals that are custom - designed for a small group of buyers .
`` companies like dupont & lt ; dd > and monsanto co & lt ; mtc > spent the past two or three years trying to get out of the commodity chemical business in reaction to how badly the market had deteriorated , '' dosher said .
`` but i think they will eventually kill the margins on the profitable chemicals in the niche market . ''
some top chemical executives share the concern .
`` the challenge for our industry is to keep from getting carried away and repeating past mistakes , '' gaf ' s heyman cautioned .
`` the shift from commodity chemicals may be ill - advised .
specialty businesses do not stay special long . ''
houston - based cain chemical , created this month by the sterling investment banking group , believes it can generate 700 mln dlrs in annual sales by bucking the industry trend .
chairman gordon cain , who previously led a leveraged buyout of dupont ' s conoco inc ' s chemical business , has spent 1 . 1 billion dlrs since january to buy seven petrochemical plants along the texas gulf coast .
the plants produce only basic commodity petrochemicals that are the building blocks of specialty products .
`` this kind of commodity chemical business will never be a glamorous , high - margin business , '' cain said , adding that demand is expected to grow by about three pct annually .
garo armen , an analyst with dean witter reynolds , said chemical makers have also benefitted by increasing demand for plastics as prices become more competitive with aluminum , wood and steel products .
armen estimated the upturn in the chemical business could last as long as four or five years , provided the u . s . economy continues its modest rate of growth .
fidata corp & lt ; fid > 4th qtr loss shr loss two cts vs profit 38 cts net loss 90 , 000 vs profit 1 , 685 , 000 revs 1 , 826 , 000 vs 29 . 3 mln year shr profit 3 . 37 dlrs vs profit 46 cts net profit 15 . 0 mln vs profit 2 , 047 , 000 revs 26 . 2 mln vs 123 . 6 mln note : net includes pretax securities sale gain 10 , 000 dlrs vs loss 1 , 000 dlrs in quarter and gain 486 , 000 dlrs vs loss 112 , 000 dlrs in year .
net includes pretax gains on sale of businesses of nil vs 4 , 656 , 000 dlrs in quarter and 26 . 0 mln dlrs vs 4 , 656 , 000 dlrs in year .
net includes pretax losses on disposition of product line of nil vs 3 , 150 , 000 dlrs in quarter and 3 , 300 , 000 dlrs vs 3 , 150 , 000 dlrs in year .
quarter net includes tax credits of 102 , 000 dlrs vs 736 , 000 dlrs .
net includes reversal of tax loss carryforwards of 259 , 000 dlrs vs 264 , 000 dlrs in quarter and tax loss carryforwards of 8 , 635 , 000 dlrs vs 579 , 000 dlrs in year .
marble financial corp & lt ; mrbl > 1st qtr net oper shr 26 cts vs not given oper net 866 , 000 vs 480 , 000 note : 1987 net excludes 157 , 000 dlr gain from termination of pension plan .
company went public in august 1986 .
dominion textile calls report of bid for burlington rumor
dominion textile calls report of bid for burlington rumor
raytheon co 1st qtr shr 1 . 37 dlrs vs 1 . 19 dlrs
raytheon co 1st qtr shr 1 . 37 dlrs vs 1 . 19 dlrs
fleet financial group 1st qtr shr 73 cts vs 60 cts
fleet financial group 1st qtr shr 73 cts vs 60 cts
diebold inc & lt ; dbd > declares dividend qtly div 30 cts vs 30 cts prior pay june 8 record may 18
independent bank corp & lt ; ibcp > regular dividend qtly div 10 cts vs 10 cts previously pay april 20 record april 10
raytheon co & lt ; rtn > 1st qtr net shr 1 . 37 dlrs vs 1 . 19 dlrs net 101 . 8 mln vs 92 . 3 mln revs 1 . 750 billion vs 1 . 725 billion avg shrs 74 . 2 mln vs 77 . 8 mln
waltham savings bank & lt ; wlbk > initial dividend qtly div eight cts vs n . a .
payable may 11 record april 24
fleet financial group & lt ; flt > 1st qtr net shr primary 73 cts vs 60 cts shr diluted 70 cts vs 58 cts net 38 , 528 , 000 vs 31 , 680 , 000 avg shares 52 , 087 , 634 vs 51 , 294 , 652 note : qtr net interest income is 130 . 7 mln dlrs vs 114 . 8 mln dlrs .
earnings per share reflects two - for - one common stock split on march 15 .
dominion calls burlington & lt ; bur > report rumor & lt ; dominion textile inc > considers a published report that it has bought a stake in burlington industries inc and is considering making a joint bid for the company to be a rumor , a company spokesman said .
`` as far as i am concerned and the company is concerned , they are rumors and we ' re not commenting on rumors , '' spokesman michel dufour told reuters in response to a query .
`` all the information that has been given out publicly is that , yes , dominion textile is interested in making an acquisition that big ... probably based on that people are starting all sorts of rumors , '' he said .
dufour said yes when asked whether the report was only a rumor , but said the company was not prepared to comment further .
dominion textile president and chairman thomas bell was out of town and unavailable for comment .
dominion textile last year made an unsuccesful 104 - mln - u . s .- dlr bid for avondale mills and has maintained a 120 - mln - u . s .- dlr line of credit to be used for an american acquisition .
dufour said the company has been negotiating with `` many `` u . s . textile companies but would not say whether burlington industries was one of them .
burlington ' s stock rose sharply this morning on the report , which said dominion textile had joined with u . s . investor asher edelman to buy a stake in the company and to consider making a takeover offer .
dominion textile , which reported operating profit of 11 . 1 mln canadian dlrs last year on sales of 926 . 5 mln dlrs , has repeatedly said it will concentrate on expanding into the u . s .
the company has said it plans to diversify into new product and market areas in addition to expanding its textile operations .
fed sets overnight system repurchases , fed says
fed sets overnight system repurchases , fed says
raytheon & lt ; rtn > net rises on operations raytheon said a 10 pct rise in its first quarter net to 101 . 8 mln dlrs reflected improved operations and a lower effective tax rate .
the company said revenue gains in electronics , major appliances and other lines were offset by decreases in energy services and aircraft products .
revenues in the quarter rose 1 . 4 pct to 1 . 75 billion dlrs , it said .
the company said backlog stood at 7 . 520 billion dlrs , down from 7 . 912 billion dlrs a year earlier .
it said a five year 3 . 55 billion dlr u . s . defense contract was awarded shortly after the close of the first quarter .
general instrument corp & lt ; grl > 4th qtr loss ended feb 28 shr loss 2 . 80 dlrs vs profit 17 cts net loss 90 . 5 mln vs profit 5 , 271 , 000 revs 240 . 9 mln vs 159 . 4 mln year shr loss 2 . 49 dlrs vs loss 2 . 07 dlrs net loss 80 . 4 mln vs loss 66 . 5 mln revs 787 . 9 mln vs 612 . 4 mln note : includes loss of 89 . 6 mln dlrs vs loss 14 . 5 mln dlrs in year and loss of 91 . 6 mln dlrs in current qtr from discontinued operations .
1986 qtr includes pretax gain of five mln dlrs from settlement of litigation and tax gain of 5 . 1 mln dlrs from change in estimated effective tax rate .
cocoa exporters expected to limit sales major cocoa exporters are likely to limit sales in the weeks ahead in an effort to boost world prices , sources close to a meeting of the cocoa producers alliance ( cpa ) said .
the sources said the depressed world market had been one of the main topics discussed in a closed door meeting of the 11 - member cpa which began on monday .
they said producers agreed that cutting sales would aid the buffer stock manager of a new international cocoa pact in his effort to support prices .
major cocoa producing and consuming nations agreed operation rules for the buffer stock at a meeting in london last month and the stock manager is expected to enter the market soon .
prices , under the weight of three successive cocoa surpluses , recently fell to the level at which the manager has to buy cocoa under stock rules .
the buffer stock aims to keep prices within a pre - set range by buying when prices fall and selling when they rise .
`` the world ' s cocoa price at present is just not interesting , '' commented one delegate representing a major cpa producer .
another source said that with much of the 1986 / 87 ( october - september ) world cocoa crop sold , limiting sales in the near term concerns essentially next year ' s harvest .
the sources noted , however , that the cocoa industry in brazil , the world ' s number two producer , is in private hands .
this means limiting sales is more difficult than in major west african producers , where sales are made or authorized by commodity marketing boards .
the cpa includes the world ' s top three producers , ivory coast , brazil and ghana , and accounts for 80 pct of all output .
the meeting here is due to end tomorrow evening .
fed adds reserves via overnight repurchases the federal reserve entered the u . s . government securities market to arrange overnight system repurchase agreements , a fed spokesman said .
dealers said that federal funds were trading at 6 - 3 / 8 pct when the fed began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking system .
honduras seeking pl - 480 bulk wheat april 13 honduras will tender april 13 under public law 480 for approximately 52 , 500 tonnes of various wheats in bulk , an agent for the country said .
the agent said honduras is seeking u . s . no .
2 or better northern spring / dns , with 14 pct protein minimum and 13 pct moisture maximum , and u . s . no .
2 or better hard red winter , with 12 pct protein minimum and 13 pct moisture maximum .
the agent said ns / dns laydays include july 1 - 10 for 7 , 500 - 9 , 500 tonnes , aug 1 - 10 for 8 , 000 - 10 , 000 tonnes , and sept 15 - 25 for 12 , 500 - 14 , 500 tonnes .
hrw laydays include june 20 - 30 on 5 , 000 - 7 , 000 tonnes , july 15 - 25 for 6 , 500 - 8 , 500 tonnes , and september 15 - 25 for 7 , 000 - 9 , 000 tonnes .
offers are due by 1550 hrs edt , april 13 , and will remain valid until 1000 hrs edt , april 14 , the agent said .
j . p . morgan & lt ; jpm > net hurt by brazil , trading j . p . morgan and co inc said its first - quarter earnings fell by 3 . 2 pct , largely reflecting its previously announced decision to place on non - accrual status its 1 . 3 billion dlrs of medium - and long - term loans to brazil .
that decision , spurred by brazil ' s suspension of interest payments on february 20 , reduced the quarter ' s net income by 20 mln dlrs to 226 . 4 mln dlrs , compared with 233 . 9 mln in the first three months of 1986 .
morgan also reported a loss of 1 . 8 mln dlrs from securities underwriting and trading , in contrast to a gain of 45 . 4 mln dlrs in the year - earlier period .
in the fourth quarter of 1986 , morgan posted other trading losses of 5 . 5 mln dlrs because of setbacks in the trading and underwriting of euromarket securities .
conditions in some sectors of the euromarket remained difficult last quarter , with floating rate notes suffering heavy price falls , but a spokeswoman was unable to say whether morgan ' s trading losses were restricted to the euromarket .
on the positive side , morgan reduced its provision for loan losses to 35 mln dlrs from 70 mln a year earlier .
foreign exchange trading income rose to 82 mln dlrs from 72 . 6 mln and trust income increased to 95 . 9 mln dlrs from 75 . 9 mln .
morgan said other operating income , mainly fees and commissions , rose to 102 . 2 mln dlrs from 88 . 4 mln , but net investment securities gains dropped to 43 . 1 mln from 58 . 1 mln .
net interest earnings were 490 . 4 mln dlrs in the first quarter , down from 499 . 4 mln a year earlier , and net yield fell to 2 . 79 pct from 3 . 20 pct .
if brazil had not been placed on non - accrual , which means that interest can be recorded as income only when payments are actually received , net interest earnings would have been 525 . 9 mln dlrs and net yield 2 . 99 pct .
if brazil does not resume payments , 1987 net would be cut by 72 mln dlrs , morgan added .
after the provision for loan losses , morgan ' s allowance for credit losses at the end of march totaled 953 mln dlrs compared with 910 mln at end - 1986 and 815 mln a year earlier .
it reported net recoveries of six mln dlrs after charge - offs of eight mln , compared with net charge - offs of 49 mln dlrs after recoveries of three mln a year earlier .
excluding brazil , non - accruing loans at quarter ' s end were 583 mln dlrs , down from 633 mln at end - 1986 and 684 mln a year earlier .
non - interest expenses rose to 371 . 1 mln dlrs from 303 . 5 mln dlrs , with more than half the increase related to personnel costs , morgan said .
atlas consolidated mining & lt ; acmb > 4th qtr shr loss 17 . 3 cts vs 21 . 5 cts net loss 14 . 5 mln vs loss 18 . 0 mln revs 27 . 3 mln vs 23 . 7 mln year shr loss 58 cts vs loss 1 . 01 dlrs net loss 48 . 3 mln vs loss 84 . 2 mln revs 111 . 7 mln vs 141 . 9 mln
brazil grain harvest faces storage problems storage problems with brazil ' s record grain crop are likely to result in losses of about five mln tonnes , an agriculture ministry spokesman said .
ministry spokesman leonardo brito , speaking from brasilia , told reuters he believed that about five mln tonnes of this year ' s estimated crop of 65 mln tonnes would be lost .
he said part of this would be the normal loss inevitable in harvesting , but that most of it would stem from storage problems .
brazil has a storage capacity of 66 mln tonnes , theoretically sufficient for the crop .
but brito said that the storage capacity was badly distributed .
the states of sao paulo , parana and rio grande do sul had between them 70 pct of the nation ' s capacity , but were responsible for only 50 to 60 pct of production .
the biggest problems are concentrated in the centre - west growing regions , where rising production has outpaced storage capacity .
brito said the centre - west , whose crops include soya and maize , had between 30 and 40 pct of the nation ' s grains production but only 20 pct of its storage space .
in addition to the poor distribution of storage units , there is the problem that too much of the capacity is geared to storing grain in sacks , while not enough is suitable for storing loose grain , brito said .
finally , there is a shortage of lorries to transport the crops .
the sheer scale of the task in transporting the record crop has been evident from television reports , which have shown enormous queues of lorries waiting outside granaries .
fleet & lt ; flt > shareholders approve share increase fleet financial group said its shareholders approved an increase in shares of the company ' s authorized common stock to 100 , 000 , 000 shares from 75 , 000 , 000 shares currently .
the company said shareholders approved the move at the annual meeting in providence today when the company reported that its first quarter earnings rose to 38 . 5 mln dlrs , or 73 cts a share , from 31 . 7 mln dlrs , or 60 cts a share , in the first quarter 1986 .
j . terence murray , chairman and president of fleet financial , said , `` fleet ' s mortgage banking activities in particular continued to produce signficant income increases ( in the first quarter ) . ''
murray said fleet ' s mortgage servicing portfolio reached 22 . 1 billion dlrs by march 31 , including 1 . 8 billion dlrs purchased in march .
rowe furniture corp & lt ; rowe > 1st qtr feb 28 shr 42 cts vs 35 cts net 854 , 000 vs 839 , 000 revs 23 . 2 mln vs 21 . 9 mln
reuters chairman urges freer information flows exchanges and telecommunications authorities should abolish their restrictions on full and free dissemination of information to the investment and banking communities , reuters holdings plc & lt ; rtrs . l > chairman sir christopher hogg said .
in the 1986 annual repoprt , he said lengthy negotiations had brought agreement with the tokyo and london stock exchanges for fuller , but still not complete , access to market data through reuter services .
`` many other markets maintain restrictions , '' he added .
hogg said members of some markets appear to believe that information restrictions protected their interests .
in other cases , exchanges seem to be limiting the distribution of data in order to provide competitive advantage to their own commercial information businesses .
he also noted that despite increasing liberalisation in the telecommunications field , some countries continue to protect their state monopolies at the expense of other economic sectors .
`` reuter dealing services remain excluded from such countries .
as a result , banking communities serving entire economies are put at a competitive disadvantage , '' he added .
reuters increased its 1986 pre - tax profit by 39 pct from the previous year to 130 . 1 mln stg on a 43 pct rise in revenues to 620 . 9 mln stg .
earnings per ordinary share were up 47 pct to 19 . 4p .
the annual shareholder meeting will be held in london on april 29 .
ccl industries purchases stake in monobloc & lt ; ccl industries inc > said it purchased a majority interest in monobloc u . s . a . from envases metalurgicos de alava of spain .
terms were not disclosed .
ccl also said it agreed to exchange present and future technology with envases .
paris group publishing daily franc tin price the association of white metals has decided to publish a daily tin price here in french francs per 100 kilos , the french federation of non - ferrous metals said .
the price , quoted for the first time yesterday , was introduced as the lack of tin quotes was causing problems for some french companies , a spokesman for the non - ferrous metals association said .
today ' s price was set at 4 , 776 francs per 100 kilos and tuesday ' s at 4 , 790 .
the international chamber of commerce stopped publishing a tin price after the london metal exchange ( lme ) stopped tin trading on october 24 , 1985 .
the association has tested the basis it uses to calculate a french franc price over the last few months to ensure it was reliable , the spokesman said .
the french franc price is pre - tax , for specified quality , a minimum 99 . 9 pct purity , at a french port or border railway station and a minimum delivery of 10 tonnes .
the french federation of non - ferrous metals groups various metal associations including the association of white metals .
rhodes inc & lt ; rhd > declares dividend qtly div nine cts vs nine cts prior pay july 15 record june 15
madeira in letter of intent to be acquired & lt ; madeira inc > said it signed a letter of intent to be acquired by tradevest inc through a stock - for - stock exchange .
after completion of the transaction , tradevest would own 90 pct of the issued outstanding stock of madeira .
celltronics & lt ; celt > declares one - for - 10 split celltronics inc said its directors declared a one - for - 10 reverse stock split of its common stock .
it said the split will be payable april 17 to shareholders of record april 16 .
montedison ' s agrimont unit 1986 earnings & lt ; montedison spa > of italy said net consolidated profit for its agrimont group , formed in june 1986 , totalled 1 . 5 billion lire in 1986 .
agrimont spa , the holding company for montedison ' s agro - industrial businesses , had sales of 810 billion lire and a net profit of about 1 . 1 billion lire , after amortization costs of 35 billion lire and a 13 billion lire reduction in the value of inventory due to falling market prices , montedison said .
agrimont , still wholly owned by montedison , is taking steps to be traded on the milan exchange , the company said .
the company said that 1986 was characterized by an unstable fertlizer market due to the weak dollar and the decline of international prices for products sold in europe and the u . s where agrimont operates through its conserv division .
in pesticides and in animal health care products agrimont maintained its previous level of revenues and market share in 1986 , montedison said .
montedison said it named ettore dell ' isola to the newly created position of president of agrimont .
montedison also said it named renato picco , managing director of & lt ; eridania spa > and gianfranco ceroni , managing director of & lt ; italiana olii e sifi > , both of whom are members of the the ferruzzi group ' s management board , to argimont ' s board of directors .
ferruzzi owns about 40 pct of montedison , the company said .
datron & lt ; datr > agrees to buyout by officers datron corp said it agreed to merge with ggfh inc , a florida - based company formed by the four top officers of the company .
according to terms of the proposed transaction , each share of datron common stock , excluding those shares owned by the four officers , will be bought for six dlrs a share , it said .
datron ' s officers hold about 73 pct of the total 896 , 000 datron common shares outstanding .
upon completion of the proposed transaction , the officers of datron would own 100 pct of the company .
the merger is subject to gghf ' s receiving financing for the plan , datron said .
shareholders of datron will be asked to approve the plan at their annual meeting to be held in june or july , and the merger is expected to be completed by july 31 , it said .
trump and interstate properties in talks to acquire alexanders
trump and interstate properties in talks to acquire alexanders
sound warehouse inc & lt ; swhi > 3rd qtr feb 28 net shr 26 cts vs 52 cts net 1 , 386 , 000 vs 2 , 773 , 000 revs 47 . 7 mln vs 38 . 5 mln nine mths shr 52 cts vs 97 cts net 2 , 765 , 000 vs 5 , 419 , 000 revs 116 . 9 mln vs 97 mln
trump and interstate in talks for alexanders donald trump and interstate properties said they were holding preliminary discussions regarding a possible joint acquisition of alexanders inc at 47 dlrs per share .
the possible acquisition is subject to any applicable real estate gains and transfer taxes , the joint statement said .
trump and interstate , which presently own about 40 pct of alexander ' s common stock , said they intend to keep the company as a retailer if they succed in their acquisition .
there can be no assurances that the parties will reach any agreement regarding an acquisition or what price might be offered , the statement said .
japan buys 4 , 000 tonnes canadian rapeseed japan bought 4 , 000 tonnes of canadian rapeseed overnight at an undisclosed price for last half may / first half june shipment , trade sources said .
telecrafter corp & lt ; swhi > 2nd qtr feb 28 net shr profit 12 cts vs loss 14 cts net profit 183 , 000 vs loss 234 , 000 revs 2 . 4 mln vs 1 . 5 mln six months shr profit 22 cts vs loss 22 cts net profit 345 , 000 vs loss 358 , 000 revs 5 . 2 mln vs 2 . 9 mln note : 1987 2nd qtr and six months include gains of 78 , 000 dlrs and 154 , 000 dlrs for tax loss carryforward .
tunisia expected to tender for french wheat tunisia is expected to tender april 14 for 100 , 000 tonnes of french soft wheat for delivery between may and august and which would be covered by the french export credit agency , coface , export credits , traders said here .
no official tender has been announced yet by tunisia , they said .
france has sold a total of 200 , 000 tonnes of soft wheat to tunisia since the begining of the current campaign which was covered by coface export credits .
of this amount , a total of 150 , 000 tonnes was exported by march 1 , they said .
colt industries inc & lt ; cot > 1st qtr net shr 28 cts vs 16 cts net 9 , 387 , 000 vs 25 , 617 , 000 revs 410 . 1 mln vs 393 . 5 mln avg shrs 35 . 4 mln vs 164 . 7 mln note : 1987 net reflects interest expense on debt incurred to finance recapitalization in oct . 1986 .
prior year earnings restated to reflect recapitalization plan .
yankee & lt ; ynk > unit not to sell subsidiary yankee cos inc said its eskey inc & lt ; esk > subsidiary has decided not to sell its yale e . key unit .
further details were not disclosed .
mayfair super markets inc & lt ; myfra > 2nd qtr feb 28 shr 59 cts vs 46 cts net 2 . 4 mln vs 1 . 9 mln revs 122 . 5 mln vs 105 . 9 mln six months shr 1 . 13 dlrs vs 84 cts net 4 . 5 mln vs 3 . 4 mln revs 242 . 5 mln vs 210 . 1 mln note : 1986 share adjusted for 2 - for - 1 stock split .
& lt ; baton broadcasting inc > six mths feb 28 net shr 33 cts vs 31 cts net 9 , 219 , 017 vs 8 , 515 , 539 revs 112 . 0 mln vs 95 . 4 mln
united cable television corp & lt ; uct > 3rd qtr net shr loss 24 cts vs profit seven cts net loss 5 , 952 , 000 vs profit 2 , 078 , 000 revs 55 . 9 mln vs 50 . 6 mln avg shrs 25 . 2 mln vs 24 . 7 mln nine mths shr loss 11 cts vs profit 24 cts net loss 2 , 673 , 000 vs profit 6 , 800 , 000 revs 162 . 6 mln vs 143 . 9 mln avg shrs 25 . 0 mln vs 24 . 4 mln note : current year net both periods includes pretax charge seven mln dlrs from increase in reserve for investments in broadcast television entities and tax credits of 1 , 002 , 000 dlrs in quarter and 520 , 000 dlrs in nine mths .
canada allows publishing takeover by harcourt investment canada said it has allowed the indirect takeover of holt , rinehart and winston canada ltd . , w . b .
saunders co of canada ltd and les editions hrw ltd by harcourt brace jovanovich canada inc .
the government agency said , however , harcourt canada has agreed to sell control of the firms to canadian interests within two years .
harcourt canada ' s u . s . parent , harcourt brace jovanovich inc & lt ; hbj > , indirectly acquired the canadian book publishing companies when it purchased holt rinehart and winston from cbs inc & lt ; cbs > last october .
talking point / burlington industries & lt ; bur > the largest u . s . textile maker focused on its own business as its competitors found merger partners , but now burlington industries inc may have restructured itself into an attractive takeover candidate , analysts said .
the takeover spotlight fell today on burlington , which rose 4 - 7 / 8 to 52 - 7 / 8 on speculation that investor asher edelman and dominion textiles inc of canada bought an almost five pct stake .
a published report said edelman and dominion jointly acquired a stake in burlington and were weighing a takeover offer .
edelman would not comment , and a spokesman for montreal - based dominion called the report just `` rumors . ''
burlington said it did not know if the report was true .
wall street professionals said they were not convinced of the story or that edelman and dominion would be the victors if burlington actually came into play .
arbitragers said past comments from dominion , however , added credence to the speculation .
dominion has said that it was looking for a takeover in the u . s . last year , dominion unsuccessfully bid for avondale mills and has maintained a 120 mln dlr line of credit to be used for a u . s . acquisition .
a dominion spokesman said canada ' s largest textile producer has been negotiating with `` many `` u . s . textile companies , but would not say whether burlington was among them .
`` there have been acquisitions in this area .
it ' s not unusual that someone could be looking at burlington after the housecleaning they ' ve done , '' said eileen gormley of thomson mckinnon .
burlington sold its domestic operations , which made sheets and other linens , to j . p . stevens and co inc for 110 mln dlrs last year .
it also has reorganized management , and focused its operations on businesses that would be less affected by foreign competition , gormley said .
`` they ' ve pulled back so as not to be a commodity marketer , '' said gormley .
she said in moving more heavily into industrial fabrics , burlington bought c . h .
masland , which supplies carpets and other fabric to the auto industry .
`` in the past , they just spent and never realized the return on the outlays they did make , '' she said .
`` you look at their record over the year , and i think they ' re poised to be more profitable than they had been in the past , '' gormley said .
she estimated 1987 earnings of 2 . 50 dlrs per share , up from 2 . 01 dlrs per share .
some analysts today recommended clients not buy burlington at its current levels .
edward johnson of johnson redbook said he recommends selling .
he said he believes the stock is worth only about 50 dlrs on a takeover basis and about 46 dlrs on an earnings basis .
some arbitragers , however , said takeover values have been placed on the company of 60 to 65 dlrs per share .
`` after asher ' s ( edelman ) recent history , a lot of people don ' t find him very credible anymore , '' said one arbitrager .
another , however , said edelman succeeds in forcing managements to take steps to enhance shareholder values even if he doesn ' t win the target company .
edelman was unsuccessful last year in offers for lucky stores inc and fruehauf corp .
he did succeed in buying ponderosa inc .
the stocks of other textile makers rose along with burlington .
j . p . stevens & lt ; stn > climbed 5 / 8 to 44 - 7 / 8 , and fieldcrest cannon inc & lt ; fld > , the result of a merger of fieldcrest and cannon , rose 1 - 1 / 8 to 39 - 3 / 4 .
west point - pepperell inc & lt ; wpm > rose 1 - 7 / 8 to 67 - 1 / 8 .
sterivet laboratories ltd & lt ; stvtf > 1st qtr net shr profit 10 cts vs loss 17 cts net profit 206 , 000 vs loss 281 , 000 revs 1 , 022 , 00 vs 344 , 000
sterivet laboratories ltd & lt ; stvtf > year loss shr loss 48 cts vs loss 19 cts net loss 746 , 000 vs loss 342 , 000 revs 3 , 213 , 000 vs 2 , 925 , 000
japan in last - ditch effort to avert tariffs senior japanese officials tomorrow open talks with american trade negotiators in a last - ditch effort to avert new high u . s . tariffs to be imposed on a wide variety of japanese electronic exports .
makoto kuroda , vice minister of japan ' s ministry of international trade and industry ( miti ) , is to hold two days of meetings with the deputy u . s . trade representative , michael smith , and the under secretary of commerce , bruce smart .
the new tariffs , to go into effect on april 17 , are in retaliation for japan ' s failure to adhere to an agreement to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at below cost and to open its home market to u . s . semiconductor shipments .
they are to be imposed on goods which use semiconductors , including television and audio equipment and computers .
both u . s . and japanese officials have said there was little likelihood the talks would do anything to avert the 100 pct duties on 300 mln dlrs worth of japanese shipments .
president reagan announced the planned tariffs on march 27 after he said that close monitoring of the july 1986 u . s .- japanese semiconductor pact convinced u . s . officials that japan was not honoring the agreement .
in making the annoucement , reagan said `` i am committed to the full enforcement of our trade agreements designed to provide american industry with free and fair trade . ''
trade analysts said his move was aimed as much at japan ' s semiconductor trade practices , which are said to have injured the u . s . semiconductor industry , as congress , which has complained about presidential timidity on trade issues .
congressional democrats have pledged to enact aggressive trade laws to counter what they contend has been reagan ' s inaction to redress the growing u . s . trade deficit , which last year reached 169 . 8 billion dlrs .
about one - third of the deficit was with japan .
reagan said there were recent signs japan was beginning to adhere to the pact and that was why he was not terminating it .
kuroda said on leaving tokyo today he had no new proposals but did have an explanation of the semiconductor situation .
he told the daily newspaper ashai shimbun that reagan ' s decision was based on inaccurate data and an exaggerated sense of miti ' s power to control japanese traders .
`` the united states has excessive expectations . , '' he said .
to stabilize supply - demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some time . ''
he also said that u . s . firms had not been aggressive enough in trying to sell in the japanese market .
hoechst celanese sends report on new facilities & lt ; hoechst celanese corp > said it sent propsective customers a confidential report describing its polyester textile fiber facilities in north carolina and south carolina .
the company did not disclose any prices .
the report describes the facilities in darlington county , s . c . , and fayetteville , n . c . , the company said .
the report also decribes related manufacturing , marketing , administrative and technical resources that could be made avialable to a buyer .
hoechst celanese was formed feb 27 by the merger of celanese corp and american hoechst corp .
the merger took place after an agreement was reached with the federal trade commission that certain domestic polyester textile fiber assets of the combined companies would be divested , it said .
hoechst celanese said it has the option of divesting either the south carolina facilities of the former american hoechst or a package of polyester textile fiber facilities of the former celanese .
mellon participating mortgage trust & lt ; mpmts > div qtly div 25 cts vs 25 cts prior payable may 6 record april 24
u . k . gec declines comment on u . s . purchase rumour general electric co plc & lt ; gecl . l > ( gec ) declined comment on rumours on the london stock market that it is planning another purchase in the u . s . medical equipment field , in addition to its existing u . s . subsidiary & lt ; picker international inc > .
a gec spokesman said that it is company policy not to comment on acquisition rumours .
stock exchange traders said the rumour helped gec ' s share price to rise 5p , to a final 206p from yesterday ' s closing price of 201p .
preston corp & lt ; ptrk > sees first quarter loss preston corp said it expects to report a loss of about 300 , 000 dlrs or five cts per share for the first quarter , compared with a profit of 1 , 081 , 000 dlrs or 19 cts per share a year before .
the trucking company attributed the loss to the continued rate of discounted in its primary markets , flat revenues and increased costs , including uninsured claims expense resulting from adverse weather conditions during the last three months .
it said results outside the northeast were strong , and it expects to show improved results for the rest of the year .
white house standing firm on japanese sanctions presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said u . s . trade sanctions against japan were likely take effect on april 17 in spite of a `` full court press `` by japanese officials to avoid them .
`` all indications are they will take effect , '' he said .
`` i would say japan is applying the full court press ...
they certainly are putting both feet forward in terms of explaining their position , '' fitzwater told reporters .
he noted high level meetings on the trade dispute are underway here but said , `` i don ' t think there ' s anything i can report and i don ' t believe there ' s been any official movement . ''
dow jones and co inc first quarter shr 69 cts vs 64 cts
dow jones and co inc first quarter shr 69 cts vs 64 cts
& lt ; hayes - dana inc > 1st qtr net shr 30 cts vs 28 cts net 5 , 000 , 000 vs 4 , 600 , 000 revs 125 . 2 mln vs 123 . 9 mln note : 52 pct - owned by dana corp & lt ; dcn > .
cocoa terminal deposits to be cut 25 pct - icch the basic deposit on cocoa futures contracts will be reduced by 25 pct as from friday , april 10 , taking the required deposit for one 10 tonne lot to 300 stg from 400 previously , a spokesman for the international commodity clearing house ( icch ) said .
the deposit for spread contracts will be similarly cut , to 150 stg for a one 10 tonne lot from 200 previously , he said .
the icch had been looking at cocoa market fluctuations over a period of weeks , he said , adding the market ' s basic stability had warranted a cut in deposit rates .
the decision to cut deposits was taken by the icch after consultation with the london cocoa terminal market , the spokesman said .
the cuts were likely to attract more business to the market , he said .
electro rent corp & lt ; elrc > 3rd qtr feb 28 net shr 20 cts vs 32 cts net 1 , 358 , 000 vs 2 , 476 , 000 revs 27 . 1 mln vs 26 . 2 mln nine mths shr 68 cts vs 1 . 05 dlrs net 4 , 957 , 000 vs 8 , 129 , 000 revs 82 . 6 mln vs 78 . 8 mln
walgreen co 2nd qtr shr 62 cts vs 58 cts
walgreen co 2nd qtr shr 62 cts vs 58 cts
